10 Things I Hate About You is an American television sitcom broadcast on ABC Family beginning in 2009. Developed by Carter Covington, the show is a half-hour, single-camera series based on the 1999 film of the same name. It premiered on Tuesday, July 7, 2009, at 8 pm. Following its initial 10-episode run, a second set of 10 episodes aired from March 29, 2010, to May 24, 2010. The series was cancelled in April 2010.


== Plot ==

The series is based on 10 Things I Hate About You, which is itself based on William Shakespeare's The Taming of the Shrew. The Stratford sisters, Kat (Lindsey Shaw) and Bianca (Meaghan Martin), have just moved from Ohio to California. They have very different goals as they start at their new school (Padua High). It is clear that one sister wants to stand out and the other just wants to fit in. Kat is a cool, smart, strong-willed, forthright feminist who is looking to save the world and get out of school as fast as she can. When she meets the intense Patrick Verona (Ethan Peck), sparks begin to fly. Bianca is a social butterfly whose main goal is to be popular, but when the head cheerleader makes her the mascot, she realizes she has a long way to go. As they start a bumpy year at Padua High, Kat and Bianca attempt to navigate the popular crowd, boys, and their over-protective dad (Larry Miller). Bianca tries everything to be popular and become a cheerleader – although getting involved with the boyfriend (Chris Zylka) of the most popular girl in school (Dana Davis) creates new challenges.


== Cast and characters ==


=== Main ===

Lindsey Shaw as Katerina "Kat" Stratford: a high school junior and Bianca's older sister
Meaghan Martin as Bianca Stratford: A sophomore and Kat's little sister
Ethan Peck as Patrick Verona: a brooding high school junior who often gets into trouble
Nicholas Braun as Cameron James: an awkward sophomore in love with Bianca
Dana Davis as Chastity Church: a sophomore and the most popular girl in school
Kyle Kaplan (pilot) as Michael Bernstein: a sophomore and the best friend with Cameron
Larry Miller as Dr. Walter Stratford: the girls' overprotective father


=== Recurring ===
Allie Gonino as Michelle
Chris Zylka as Joey Donner
Ally Maki as Dawn
Jolene Purdy as Mandell
Suzy Nakamura as Principal Holland
Leslie Grossman as Ms. Darlene Tharpe
Barret Swatek as Ms. Somers
Jack Salvatore Jr. as Brad
Justin Lee as Charlie Woo
Cody McMains as Keith
Ashley Jackson as Tabitha Cook
Benjamin Stone as William "Blank" Blankenship


== Development and production ==
In 2008, ABC Family announced their intention to create a comedy pilot based on the 1999 movie. The pilot was written by Carter Covington, a self-professed fan of the film. ABC Family green-lit the comedy in October 2008. In November 2008, casting was announced for the pilot, with production following that fall. In February 2009, the pilot was picked up when ABC Family ordered 9 additional episodes.
While Covington sought a "reimagined" adaptation, there are several connections between the pilot and the movie, which gave the pilot the same feel. Gil Junger, who directed the movie, also directed the pilot and served as series consultant. Richard Gibbs, who was credited for the original music in the 1999 movie, also composed the theme music for the pilot. In addition, Larry Miller reprised his role as the overprotective father, Walter Stratford. A cover of I Want You to Want Me by Cheap Trick (which was covered for the film by Letters to Cleo) was recorded by KSM. A music video was shot which featured members of the cast with KSM.
The pilot was shot at a high school in Tujunga, California. Due to budget constraints, future episodes were filmed at a soundstage in Santa Clarita, California, with only occasional external shots in Tujunga.
Covington served as the series' showrunner, as well as an executive producer. He stated that he wanted the show "to feel like a John Hughes film every week." Junger remained on board and directed seven o