10 Things I Hate About You is a 1999 American teen romantic comedy film directed by Gil Junger in his film directorial debut and starring Julia Stiles, Heath Ledger, Joseph Gordon-Levitt, and Larisa Oleynik. The screenplay by Karen McCullah Lutz and Kirsten Smith is a modernization of William Shakespeare's comedy The Taming of the Shrew, retold in a late-1990s American high school setting. The film follows new student Cameron James (Gordon-Levitt) who is smitten with Bianca Stratford (Oleynik) and attempts to get bad boy Patrick Verona (Ledger) to date her antisocial sister Kat (Stiles) in order to get around her father's strict rules on dating. Named after a poem Kat writes about her romance with Patrick, the film was mostly shot in the Seattle metropolitan area, with many scenes filmed at Stadium High School in Tacoma, Washington.
Released on March 31, 1999, 10 Things I Hate About You grossed over $60 million and received generally positive reviews from critics. It provided breakthrough roles for Stiles, Ledger, and Gordon-Levitt, all of whom were nominated for various teen-oriented awards. The film has since developed a cult following and is considered a classic in the teen film genre. Ten years later, it was adapted into a television reboot, which ran for 20 episodes and featured Larry Miller reprising his role as Walter Stratford.


== Plot ==
Cameron James, a new student at Padua High School in the Seattle area, immediately becomes smitten with beautiful and popular sophomore Bianca Stratford. Geeky Michael Eckman warns him that she is vapid and conceited, and that her overprotective single father Walter, an obstetrician worried about teenage pregnancy, does not allow her or her shrewish older sister Kat, a senior, to date. Kat is accepted to Sarah Lawrence College in New York, but Walter wants her to stay close to home and attend his alma mater, the University of Washington. Bianca wishes to date affluent senior Joey Donner, but Walter will not allow his daughters to date until they graduate. Frustrated by Bianca's insistence and Kat's rebelliousness, Walter relents and declares that Bianca may date only when Kat does, knowing that Kat's antisocial attitude will greatly complicate it.
When Cameron asks Bianca out, she informs him of her father's new rule and suggests he find someone willing to date Kat so that she can freely date Joey. He selects Australian "bad boy" Patrick Verona, who initially frightens him with his attitude. Michael assists by convincing Joey to pay Patrick to take Kat out, believing that it will allow Joey to date Bianca. Patrick agrees to the deal, but Kat initially rebuffs his first few advances. After Michael and Cameron assist him by probing Bianca for information on Kat's preferences, Patrick begins to win Kat's interest. She goes to a party with him, which enables Bianca to tag along, greatly upsetting Walter.
At the party, Kat becomes upset upon seeing Bianca with Joey, and responds by getting intoxicated. Patrick attends to her, and she starts to open up to him, expressing her interest in forming a band. When Kat attempts to kiss him, Patrick pulls away, causing her to depart, infuriated. Meanwhile, Bianca upsets Cameron by ignoring him for Joey, but soon realizes that Joey is indeed shallow and self-absorbed. When she asks Cameron to drive her home, he admits his feelings for her are indeed genuine and her treatment towards him has frustrated him, and she reconciliatorily kisses him in response.
Joey offers to pay Patrick to take Kat to the prom so he can take Bianca. He initially refuses, but relents when Joey offers him more money. Although Kat is still angry with Patrick, he eventually wins her over by serenading her, accompanied by the Padua High School marching band, with a performance of "Can't Take My Eyes Off You" by Frankie Valli, and she returns the favor by assisting him in sneaking out of detention. Their subsequent date turns romantic, but Kat becomes suspicious when Patrick i