2010 (MMX) was a common year starting on Friday of the Gregorian calendar, the 2010th year of the Common Era (CE) and Anno Domini (AD) designations, the 10th  year of the 3rd millennium and the 21st century, and the  1st   year of the 2010s decade.  
The year saw a multitude of natural and environmental disasters such as the 2010 Haiti earthquake, the Deepwater Horizon oil spill, and the 2010 Chile earthquake. The swine flu pandemic which began the previous year dissipated in this year. In addition, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) gained four new members; Chile, Slovenia, Israel, and Estonia. 2010 also saw advancements in technology such as the release of the iPad, the public launch of Instagram, and the first successful trapping of antimatter.
2010 was designated as:

International Year of Biodiversity
International Year of Youth
2010 European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion
International Year for the Rapprochement of Cultures


== Pronunciation ==

There is a debate among experts and the general public on how to pronounce specific years of the 21st century in English. The year 2010 is pronounced either "twenty-ten" or "two thousand (and) ten". 2010 was the first year to have a wide variation in pronunciation, because the years 2000 to 2009 were generally pronounced "two thousand (and) one, two, three, etc." as opposed to the less common "twenty-oh-_".


== Events ==


=== January ===
January 4 – The tallest man-made structure to date, the Burj Khalifa in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, is officially opened.
January 8 – The Togo national football team is attacked in Cabinda Province, Angola, and as a result withdraws from the Africa Cup of Nations. The attack was perpetrated by the FLEC, their first since the Angolan Civil War.
January 10 – Religious violence erupts in Jos Nigeria, which left scores dead, and many injured.
January 12 – A 7.0-magnitude earthquake occurs in Haiti, devastating the nation's capital, Port-au-Prince. With a confirmed death toll over 316,000 It is one of the deadliest earthquakes on record.
January 14 – Yemen declares an open war against the terrorist group al-Qaeda.
January 15
The longest annular solar eclipse of the 3rd millennium occurs.
The Chadian Civil War officially ends.
Honduras withdraws from ALBA.
January 19
Mahmoud Al-Mabhouh is assassinated in Dubai
North Caucasian Federal District was split from Southern Federal District by decree of Russian President Dmitry Medvedev
January 25 – Ethiopian Airlines Flight 409 crashes into the Mediterranean shortly after take-off from Beirut–Rafic Hariri International Airport, killing all 90 people on board.


=== February ===
February 3 – The sculpture L'Homme qui marche I by Alberto Giacometti sells in London for £65 million (US$103.7 million), setting a new world record for a work of art sold at auction.
February 5 – The d'Wäschfra satirical magazine begins publication in Luxembourg.
February 10 – The Australian government is hit by cyberattacks from freedom of expression activists, following recent Australian pornography restrictions.
February 12 – 28 – The 2010 Winter Olympics are held in Vancouver and Whistler, Canada.
February 15 – Two trains collide in Halle, Belgium, killing 19 and injuring 171 people.
February 18 – The President of Niger, Mamadou Tandja, is overthrown after a group of soldiers storms the presidential palace and form a ruling junta, the Supreme Council for the Restoration of Democracy headed by chef d'escadron Salou Djibo.
February 27 – An 8.8-magnitude earthquake occurs in Chile, triggering a tsunami over the Pacific and killing at least 525. The earthquake is one of the largest in recorded history.


=== March ===
March 16 – The Kasubi Tombs, Uganda's only cultural World Heritage Site, are destroyed by fire.
March 22 – Four-year-old Paulette Gebara Farah disappears from her family's home located in Huixquilucan, State of Mexico.
March 26 – The ROKS Cheonan, a South Korean Navy sh