50 First Dates is a 2004 American romantic comedy film directed by Peter Segal and starring Adam Sandler and Drew Barrymore, with Rob Schneider, Sean Astin, Lusia Strus, Blake Clark, and Dan Aykroyd in supporting roles. It follows the story of Henry Roth, a womanizing marine veterinarian who falls for an art teacher named Lucy Whitmore. When he discovers she has amnesia, and forgets him when she falls asleep, he resolves to win her over again each new day.
Most of the film was shot on location in Oahu, Hawaii, on the Windward side and the North Shore. Sandler and Barrymore won an MTV Movie Award for Best-On Screen Team.
The film received mixed reviews but was a commercial success. It was later remade in India as Satyabhama (2007, in Telugu) and as Ormayundo Ee Mukham (2014, in Malayalam), in Japan as 50 First Kisses (2018), in Iran as Chap dast (2005), and in Mexico as Como si fuera la primera vez (2019). The film marked the second collaboration between Sandler and Barrymore, after The Wedding Singer and before Blended (both directed by Frank Coraci), and also featured a dedication to the memory of Sandler's father Stanley, who had died at the age of 68 from lung cancer on September 9, 2003, during the end credits.


== Plot ==
Henry Roth, a marine veterinarian at Sea Life Park Hawaii on Oahu, only dates tourists to avoid any serious commitments. His closest friends are Ula, a marijuana-smoking Islander; Alexa, his androgynous assistant; Willy, his pet African penguin; and Jocko, a walrus that lives at the park. 
One day, Henry's boat breaks down, and while waiting for the Coast Guard at the Hukilau Café, he encounters art teacher Lucy Whitmore constructing architectural art with her waffles. Assuming she is a local, which prevents him from introducing himself, he unsuccessfully attempts to return to his womanizing routine. The next day, he returns to the café and re-encounters Lucy; they instantly connect over breakfast and Lucy offers to meet him again for breakfast the next morning.
The next day, however, Lucy unfortunately shows no recollection of ever meeting him. The restaurant owner Sue explains to Henry that the year before, Lucy and her father Marlin traveled to the North Shore to pick a pineapple for his birthday. While they were returning, a cow wandered through a broken fence and onto the road, and the ensuing car accident resulted in Lucy being diagnosed with anterograde amnesia, whereby she remembers everything up until the night before the accident; although her memory functions normally during the day, her daily experiences are lost when she sleeps. To spare her from horrifically reliving the accident, Marlin and Doug, Lucy's steroid-addicted brother, re-enact Marlin's birthday daily.
Despite Sue's warning, Henry attempts to get Lucy to have breakfast with him several times, but when he unintentionally offends her one day, he follows her to her house to apologize, but Marlin and Doug instruct him to leave her alone. However, Alexa advises Henry to look for a loophole in said instruction. Heeding Marlin's specific orders to avoid the café, Henry meets Lucy on the road through the following days, managing to successfully impress her over multiple "first" dates and "chance" encounters. Later, Marlin and Doug permit Henry to continue when they discover Lucy regularly singing the Beach Boys' "Wouldn't It Be Nice" in her painting studio, the first major change in her routine since the accident.
One day, Lucy notices a police officer writing a ticket because of her expired license plates. With the ruse exposed, she is distressed to learn that her friends and family have maintained the charade for so long. However, while analyzing her reaction, Henry surmises that her strongest reactions are to feeling betrayed by her loved ones, rather than the actual memory loss. He devises a new strategy to let her know about the truth by creating a video with her friends to explain the situation calmly; rather than allowing her pre