28 Days Later is a 2002 British post-apocalyptic horror film directed by Danny Boyle and written by Alex Garland. It stars Cillian Murphy as a bicycle courier who awakens from a coma to discover the accidental release of a highly contagious, aggression-inducing virus has caused the breakdown of society. Naomie Harris, Christopher Eccleston, Megan Burns, and Brendan Gleeson appear in supporting roles.
Garland took inspiration from George A. Romero's Night of the Living Dead film series and John Wyndham's 1951 novel The Day of the Triffids. Filming took place in various locations in the United Kingdom in 2001. The crew filmed for brief periods during early mornings and temporarily closed streets to capture recognisable and typically busy areas when they were deserted. John Murphy composed an original soundtrack for the film, with other instrumental songs by Brian Eno, Godspeed You! Black Emperor and other artists also being featured.
28 Days Later was released on 1 November 2002 to critical acclaim and financial success. Grossing more than $82.7 million worldwide on its modest budget of $8 million, it became one of the most profitable horror films of 2002. Reviewers praised Boyle's direction, the cast's performances, Garland's screenplay, the atmosphere and soundtrack. Despite Boyle not considering it a zombie film, 28 Days Later is credited with reinvigorating the zombie genre of horror film and influencing a revival in the decade after its release, with its fast-running infected and character-driven drama. Since its release, it has been featured in several "best-of" film lists and maintained a following, particularly amid the COVID-19 pandemic in the 2020s.
The film was followed by the 2007 sequel 28 Weeks Later, the 2007 graphic novel 28 Days Later: The Aftermath, and the 2009—2011 comic book series 28 Days Later. A third film in the franchise, 28 Years Later, is set for release in 2025.


== Plot ==
A highly contagious, aggression-inducing virus called the "rage virus" is unleashed in Great Britain after an infected chimpanzee is freed from its cage in a laboratory in Cambridge by a group of animal rights activists. Within seconds of exposure after freeing the enraged chimp, one of the activists succumbs to the virus and immediately infects another. Over the following hours and days, it spreads rapidly and becomes an epidemic, resulting in total societal collapse.
Twenty-eight days after the initial outbreak, bicycle courier Jim, who had an accident and fell into a coma prior to the outbreak, awakens in St Thomas' Hospital in London, which has been completely deserted with visible signs of catastrophe. After wandering the streets of London and entering a church, Jim is chased by infected humans before being rescued by survivors Selena and Mark, who take Jim to their place of refuge in a streetside store. At Jim's request, the group travel on foot to his parents' house in Deptford, where he learns that they died by suicide, leaving a note in which they prayed he did not wake up. The group decide it is too late to return to their place of refuge, and stay the night. While the others are asleep, Jim lights a candle to reminisce over photos and memories of his family, in so doing accidentally attracting the infected with the light. Shortly thereafter, Mark gets an open wound on his arm which is exposed to infected blood during an attack, prompting Selena to immediately kill him before he can turn.
Jim and Selena encounter cab driver Frank and his daughter Hannah at Balfron Tower, from whom they learn of a military broadcast offering protection at a blockade in Manchester. With supplies dwindling, Frank asks Jim and Selena to accompany him and Hannah to the blockade, which they accept. The group travels to Manchester in Frank's cab, but upon arriving, they find the blockade deserted. As the group struggles to plot their next move, Frank is infected when a drop of blood falls into his eye. The soldiers arrive shortly afterwards an