301, 302 or 301/302 is a 1995 South Korean film directed by Park Chul-soo. It tells the story of two South Korean women, neighbors in the same apartment building, who take very different approaches to the difficulties of modern life; one indulges in food, sex, and spending while the other lives in self-imposed austerity. The film was selected as the South Korean entry for the Best Foreign Language Film at the 68th Academy Awards, but was not accepted as a nominee.
The film was inspired by poet Jang Jung Ill's poem "The Cook and the Anorexic."
Compulsion, a 2013 Canadian psychological thriller directed by Egidio Coccimiglio, is based on this film.


== Plot ==
301, 302 explores the relationship of Song-hee, a chef living in apartment 301, and Yoon-hee, an anorexic writer living in apartment 302. The film begins with a detective visiting Song-hee to investigate the disappearance of Yoon-hee. The detective questions Song-hee about Yoon-hee's personal life, Song-hee claims that Yoon-hee has no interest in food or sex. He then searches Yoon-hee's empty apartment. The film shows Yoon-hee in the spaces around her home that the detective explores. The detective finds her anorexia medicine and her written work on the subject of sex.
The film goes back to when Song-hee moved into apartment 301. Yoon-hee avoids interacting with her, preferring to be left alone. Song-hee begins construction on her new apartment and Yoon-hee experiences flashbacks of her experience of sexual abuse. There is a flashback to Song-hee packing her belongings after divorcing her husband. He criticizes Song-hee's weight gain and when the film moves back to her moving into apartment 301, she expresses her desire to lose weight.
Song-hee then visits Yoon-hee with a plate of the food she made. Yoon-hee does not eat the food and instead vomits into the toilet. Meanwhile, Song-hee celebrates her independence from her ex-husband and states her commitment to going on a diet. She brings Yoon-hee food a second time. She tries to make Yoon-hee eat sausage, which she refuses to do. Song-hee asks if she has been raped and then expresses her love for sex. Yoon-hee is visibly upset by the food and vomits again which offends Song-hee who presumes Yoon-hee thinks she is disgusting for liking sex. The film goes through a compilation of  Song-hee cooking and delivering food to Yoon-hee who subsequently throws the food into the trash and vomits. Song-hee catches Yoon-hee taking out the trash and sees all the food she cooked in the trash bag. She digs the food out of the trash bag and puts it all on plates in front of Yoon-hee in an attempt to force her to eat but she vomits again. Song-hee brings Yoon-hee to her apartment and apologizes for her actions and then forces Yoon-hee to eat against her will.
The film shows a flashback to Yoon-hee's life living with her mother and step-father in their family-run butcher shop. Her step-father repeatedly sexually assaulted her. She resorts to hiding from her family in a freezer, a child of a customer sees her exit the freezer and decides to enter the freezer as well. The child freezes to death. The film then moves back to Song-hee and Yoon-hee in apartment 301 and Song-hee finally understands Yoon-hee's reasoning for not eating. She commits to making food that Yoon-hee can eat but Yoon-hee continues to vomit in response to the food.
The film moves back to Song-hee's conversation with the detective and it's revealed that she killed, cooked, and fed her pet dog to her husband, which caused their divorce. Another flashback shows Song-hee still married to her husband and living her life as a housewife. They are shown as a happy couple indulging in food and sex. Their relationship deteriorates and Song-hee's relationship with food changes as she begins overeating and gaining weight. She discovers that her husband is having an affair and gains resentment for their pet dog who receives more attention than her from her husband. She serves him a meal