The Abominable Snowman (US title: The Abominable Snowman of the Himalayas; also known as The Snow Creature) is a 1957 British fantasy-horror film directed by Val Guest and starring Forrest Tucker, Peter Cushing, Maureen Connell and Richard Wattis. It was written by Nigel Kneale based on his 1955 BBC television play The Creature, which also starred Cushing. It was produced by Aubrey Baring for Hammer Films.
The film follows the exploits of British scientist Dr. John Rollason who joins an American expedition, led by glory-seeker Tom Friend, to search the Himalayas for the legendary Yeti.


== Plot ==
Dr. John Rollason, his wife, Helen, and their assistant Peter Fox, are guests of the Lama of the monastery of Rong-buk while on a botanical expedition to the Himalayas. A second group, led by Tom Friend accompanied by trapper Ed Shelley, photographer Andrew McNee and Sherpa guide Kusang, arrives at the monastery to search for the legendary Yeti or Abominable Snowman.  Rollason, despite the objections of his wife and the Lama, decides to join Friend's expedition. Whereas Rollason is motivated by scientific curiosity to learn more about the creature, Friend seeks fame and fortune and wants to capture a live Yeti and present it to the world's press.
The expedition climbs high into the mountains and finds giant footprints in the snow, evidence of the Yeti's existence. As the tensions between Rollason and Friend rise, McNee is injured by a bear trap laid by Shelley to catch the Yeti.
When a Yeti is seen up-close by Kusang, he cries that he has "Seen what man must not see..." and flees down the mountain at double-speed back to the monastery, from where Helen and Fox decide to mount a rescue mission. McNee is also psychically sensitive to the Yeti's proximity, which finally leads to Shelley shooting and killing a Yeti. The next day, McNee, hearing the haunting calls of the Yeti, hobbles from his tent and falls off a cliff.
Friend hatches a plan to trap a live Yeti by having a steel net rigged to the ceiling of a cave, with Shelley waiting, as bait, to spring the trap. Rollason is against the plan, but Shelley is keen to do it, believing the Yeti know that it was he who killed the first one, and that they will now come after him, so it is better to act first. Friend has given him a rifle, but unbeknownst to Shelley, it is loaded with blanks. A Yeti does show up and as it tangles with the net, Shelley fires at it. Coming out of their hiding place nearby, Friend and Rollason find him dead, and Rollason discovers the rifle was loaded with blanks. Friend says that he knew Shelley would panic and fire the rifle, and didn't want another dead creature. He says that the Yeti murdered Shelley, but Rollason points out that there are no marks on the body; he believes that the Yeti came only to retrieve their fallen comrade's body, and says that it was Shelley's intense fear, exacerbated by the rifle not firing, that caused him to have a heart attack and die, in which case Friend is responsible for his death. 
Friend, finally, decides to cut his losses and leave with the body of the dead Yeti. However, the Yeti telepathically plant thoughts in Rollason's mind, and then make Friend hear the dead Shelley's voice calling for help. Friend rushes outside, firing his gun and dies in a crushing avalanche that he caused.
Rollason takes refuge in the cave and watches in amazement as two Yeti arrive to take away the body of their fallen compatriot. He realizes the Yeti are an intelligent species biding their time to claim the Earth for themselves after humanity has destroyed itself.
The rescue party finds Rollason outside a halfway-point hut, where the Yeti have actually brought him. At the monastery, Rollason asserts to the Lama that "What I was searching for, does not exist."


== Cast ==

Forrest Tucker as Tom Friend
Peter Cushing as Dr John Rollason
Maureen Connell as Helen Rollason
Richard Wattis as Peter Fox
Robert Brown as Ed Shelley
Michael Brill as Andr