About Last Night is a 2014 American romantic comedy film starring Kevin Hart, Michael Ealy, Regina Hall and Joy Bryant. It is a remake of the 1986 film of the same name; both films are based on the 1974 David Mamet play Sexual Perversity in Chicago. The remake, featuring a predominantly Black cast, is directed by Steve Pink and written by Leslye Headland. It tells the story of Danny (Ealy) and Debbie (Bryant), and Bernie (Hart) and Joan (Hall), two couples who test how their relationships work in the real world.
While the original film is set in Chicago, Illinois, the remake is set in Los Angeles, California where filming took place in late 2012. It was produced on a budget of $13 million. The film premiered at the Pan African Film Festival on February 11, 2014 and was released in theaters on Valentine's Day, February 14, 2014. The film received generally positive reviews, with most critics praising the humor between Hart and Hall. The film grossed $50 million at the box office.


== Plot ==
Danny is a salesman working in the restaurant supply business along with his friend, ladies' man Bernie. Bernie invites Danny on a double date, where he meets Debbie, a friend of Joan, Bernie's latest sexual partner. He is still pining over his ex-girlfriend Alison, but begins a relationship with Debbie. They have a more conventional romance, while Bernie and Joan are constantly antagonistic towards each other, and eventually mutually end their relationship.
Several months later, Danny and Debbie move in together. Bernie regularly mocks Danny about his relationship, accusing him of being emasculated and under Debbie's control. Danny and Debbie begin to argue more frequently about a variety of topics, but particularly about Danny's apparent lack of commitment to their relationship. He is fired from his job for extending credit to bar owner Casey, and begins working at Casey's as a bartender.
While working, Danny is surprised by Alison. After she gets too drunk and refuses to go to her own home, Danny brings her to his apartment, where she flirts with him. The same night, Debbie, who is on a business trip, is propositioned by her coworker and ex Steven; both reject their exes.
After another argument at a New Year’s Eve party, Debbie breaks up with Danny and moves out. Both of them continue to be emotionally affected by their relationship, and have difficulty being with other people. Meanwhile, Bernie and Joan rekindle their relationship, based on their mutual enjoyment of antagonizing each other. Danny calls Debbie hoping to meet up, but is rejected.
Bernie and Joan's relationship continues to grow, eventually leading them to move in together, despite both of them having had discouraged Danny and Debbie from moving in while together. Walking the dog that he and Debbie got as a couple, he runs into her, they having been set up to run into each other by Bernie and Joan. They talk and agree to give their relationship another chance.


== Cast ==
The film features the following actors:

Hart was cast in June 2012. In the following July, Ealy and Hall joined the cast. Hart, Hall, and Ealy had previously starred together in the romantic comedy Think Like a Man (2012), which About Last Night's producer Will Packer also produced. Joy Bryant was cast in August to round out the four key roles. In addition to McDonald, Rodríguez, Lo Truglio, and Patton making up the supporting cast, American football player Terrell Owens had a cameo appearance in the film.
Hart and Hall played the characters that James Belushi and Elizabeth Perkins played in the original film. While the character Joan was not very likable in the original film, Hall said the writers revised the character to be closer to the one depicted in the play. Hall said, "Instead of making her just snarky, there are a lot of levels that she goes to."
Ealy and Bryant played characters portrayed by Rob Lowe and Demi Moore in the previous film. Ealy said he chose not to see the play or the original f