Ace Ventura is a title character created by screenwriter Jack Bernstein. Ace was performed by Jim Carrey in the films Ace Ventura: Pet Detective, released in 1994, and Ace Ventura: When Nature Calls, released in 1995, and was voiced by Michael Daingerfield in the Ace Ventura: Pet Detective television series.


== Biography ==
Ace is a Miami-based private detective specializing in the retrieval of missing animals, the son of Rex Ventura and descendant of such as "Ernest Ventura Shackleton" and "Jacques Ventura Costeau". It is not known whether the animated television series was contiguous with the feature-films, but if it was it may take place before them because the only one of his pets to appear in the series is his capuchin monkey, Spike. His eccentricities make him a laughing stock to the Miami-Dade Police Department in the early part of the first film, but he eventually earned their respect after his rescue of quarterback Dan Marino and the dolphin, Snowflake, the mascot of the Miami Dolphins.


=== Ace Ventura: Pet Detective ===

During the first film, Ace lives in an apartment alongside many different animals, all of whom hide from his landlord (to whom he owes money for rent), Mr. Shickadance (Mark Margolis) in his absence. He is tasked with not only finding a stolen dolphin, but also trying to prevent the kidnapping of Dan Marino from a psychopath ex-football player, Ray Finkle, bent on revenge for costing the Dolphins the game with the botched field goal against the San Francisco 49ers in Super Bowl XIX. He is certain that Finkle is the man responsible, but he can't find Finkle. Ace also learns of a missing hiker who coincidentally is named Lois Einhorn, who is a lieutenant of the Miami Police department and tries to figure out the connection she has with his suspect. Eventually, Ace not only discovers the connection that Finkle has with Einhorn, but also that they're the same person in disguise. As the real Lois Einhorn was still missing, Finkle had used the opportunity to steal her identity by having a sex-change and then joined the police force as part of his plan for revenge. Disgusted by the thought that when he had been previously kissed by Einhorn, he had actually been kissed by a man, Ace spends the night rinsing his mouth out and washing himself. Following Einhorn to the hideout inside a wharf, he tries to test his theory on her, but finds a normal feminine body and actual hair. Before Ace was about to give up, Marino secretly alerts him to a bulge sticking between her legs. With concrete proof, Ace makes a short humiliating speech at Einhorn while revealing to the entire Miami PD about her true motive in killing Roger Podacter, when he discovered her true identity as Finkle ("He found Captain Winky!"). He proves it by forcibly turning Einhorn over to reveal the bulge sticking out of her silk panties. Everyone in the PD, as well as Marino and Snowflake, reacts in disgust when they learned that Finkle had kissed them the same way as Ace. Now humiliated and exposed, Finkle makes his last attempt to kill Ace out of revenge, but he flips him over into the wharf. As he attempts to pull himself up, Ace steps over Finkle's hand and takes the ring which was indeed missing a stone to finalize his theory that Einhorn is no doubt the disgraced Ray Finkle. Ace begins a relationship with Miami Dolphins' press officer, Melissa Robinson, while Finkle is arrested for his crimes.


=== Ace Ventura: When Nature Calls ===

During the second film, Ace attempts monasticism after a failed rescue attempt of a raccoon, only to be called out of retirement to investigate a missing sacred animal named Shikaka, although he has a severe fear of bats. During meditation with the Abbot, he discovers Vincent Cadby who originally hired him to find the bat is the same kidnapper who wanted the war to happen so he can take control of the guano deposits there. His motive for hiring Ace was to have an alibi, that he tried to prevent the war. He th