Across the Furious Sea (Chinese: 涉过愤怒的海)  is a 2023 Chinese crime thriller drama film directed and co-written by Cao Baoping, and starring Huang Bo and Zhou Xun. The film was adapted from the novel by Lao Huang of the same name published in Fiction Monthly. It is the last instalment of Cao's "Heartburn trilogy" following The Dead End and The Perfect Blue. It was released theatrically in China on November 25, 2023.


== Plot ==
Jin (Huang Bo), who is captain of a Chinese fishing trawler, is informed that his daughter Nana (Zhou Yiran) has gone missing while studying at Kyoto University. He goes to Kyoto and tries to question Nana's boyfriend Miaomiao (Zhang Youhao), but the latter evades him and flies back to China. The body of Nana is discovered and the preliminary autopsy concludes that she was gang-raped and stabbed non-fatally seventeen times, after which she slowly bled to death. Jin returns to China and breaks into the mansion of Miaomiao's father, but the latter says that he does not know Miaomiao's location. Miaomiao's mother Jing (Zhou Xun), who is divorced from her husband, returns to China from Germany and confers with Jin. She asks Jin to refrain from interfering for three days while she tracks down Miaomiao and hands him over to the police. However, it is revealed that she is lying. She has hid Miaomiao in a safe house within a forest and is working to obtain a German visa for him. Upon receiving the visa, she tries to retrieve Miaomiao, but being someone addicted to cos-playing, he has run off to a cos-playing convention. Jin is arrested for the break-in but is released by a sympathetic Officer Dai. Jin correctly guesses that Miaomiao will be at the convention, and chases him onto the roof of the convention-center, whereupon both of them fall and land on an inflatable figurine. Miaomiao races back to his father's mansion and hides upstairs. Jin forces his way into the mansion, attempts to search the basement, and is locked inside the basement by Jing, who calls the police. Jing sends Miaomiao to the airport with her private chauffeur. Minutes before the police arrive, Jin attempts to escape the basement by starting a fire, and nearly kills himself through smoke-inhalation, being saved by Jing at the last minute.
The police arrest Jin and start driving to the station, but Jing, for unclear reasons, desires to meet her son at the airport and drives in that direction in her SUV. The police-car decides to follow Jing instead of going to the station. A fierce storm occurs leading to a collision between the police-car, Jing's SUV, and the car containing Miaomiao and the chauffeur. All parties except Jin are incapacitated. Jin proceeds to kidnap Miaomiao. He is later arrested but refuses to disclose Miaomiao's location. He asks that the police release him for three days so that he can fly to Kyoto to attend his daughter's funeral, after which he will disclose Miaomiao's location. Officer Dai scoffs at his proposal, but Jing accepts and tells the police that she will not testify against Jin if the police do not release him. In Kyoto, Jin tracks down the three students who gang-raped Nana using evidence taken from Miaomiao's phone, and either kills or severely injures them. Upon returning to China, Jin meets with Jing, shows her evidence that Miaomiao called Nana a slut and shunned her after she was gang-raped, and tells her that he has killed Miaomiao already and dumped the body. Jing tries to kill herself by driving her SUV into the sea but is rescued by Jin. The two of them come to an understanding, and Jing refuses to testify against Jin, giving Officer Dai no choice but to drop the kidnapping charges.
Jin finds out (probably through Jing) that Miaomiao's father resents Miaomiao for having been involved in an accident which crippled his younger sister, and that just recently, after returning from Japan, Miaomiao played a prank on his sister, causing a further injury. The Japanese police conclude their investigation and