The 2024 Against All Odds is an upcoming professional wrestling event produced by Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA). It will take place on June 14, 2024, at the Cicero Stadium in Cicero, Illinois, and air on TNA+. It will be the 13th event under the Against All Odds chronology.


== Production ==


=== Background ===
Against All Odds was an annual professional wrestling event produced by Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) between 2005 and 2012. In 2013, TNA discontinued most of its monthly pay-per-view events in favor of the new pre-recorded One Night Only events. It was revived as a special episode of Impact! that aired on March 29, 2019. On April 11, 2024, TNA announced that Against All Odds would take place on June 14 at Cicero Stadium in Cicero, Illinois.


=== Storylines ===
The event will feature several professional wrestling matches that involved different wrestlers from pre-existing scripted feuds, plots, and storylines. Wrestlers portray heroes, villains, or less distinguishable characters in scripted events that build tension and culminate in a wrestling match or series of matches. Storylines are produced on TNA's weekly programs, Impact! and Xplosion.
At Rebellion, Moose retained the TNA World Championship over Nic Nemeth. However, when Moose and his stable, The System (Brian Myers, Eddie Edwards, and Alisha Edwards), were about to celebrate, he was ambushed by "Broken" Matt Hardy, making his first TNA appearance since 2021. On the following episode of TNA Impact!, Hardy and Nemeth met in the ring – the former making his world title aspirations clear – as they made a pact to "delete" The System. Later in the main event, Edwards defeated Nemeth before The System took Nemeth out with a chair. Nemeth was scheduled to take part in a six-man tag team match at Under Siege, teaming with Speedball Mountain (Trent Seven and Mike Bailey) against The System, but his subsequent injury led to Hardy taking his place. Unfortunately, The System would defeat Hardy and Speedball Mountain on the night. The System would have a "Championship Celebration" on the following TNA Impact! to celebrate their win at Under Siege and their championship accomplishments (Moose as TNA World Champion, Myers and Eddie as TNA World Tag Team Champions, and Alisha recently becoming TNA Knockouts World Tag Team Champion). They were quickly interrupted by Hardy, however, making it clear that he wasn't finished with them. Hardy then attacked, but when The System nearly had the upper hand, they were stopped by Ryan Nemeth, Nic Nemeth's younger brother. Two weeks later, Hardy and Ryan defeated Myers and Edwards in a non-title match, and when Moose came out to partake in a post-match assault, Nic Nemeth returned to even the odds. After that match, TNA Director of Authority Santino Marella would grant Hardy and Ryan a TNA World Tag Team Championship match at Against All Odds. However, Hardy made it clear he was in TNA for the world title, so Marella granted him an opportunity against Moose while giving the tag team title match to Ryan and Nic Nemeth.
On the May 9 TNA Impact!, Speedball Mountain (Trent Seven and Mike Bailey) defeated ABC (Ace Austin and Chris Bey) to determine who would face each other for a TNA X Division Championship match against Mustafa Ali at Against All Odds. They would face two weeks later, where after a distraction from Ali and interference by Champagne Singh, Seven defeated Bailey to become number one contender.


== Matches ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Against All Odds Official Website