Aladdin and the King of Thieves (also known as Aladdin 3: The King of Thieves) is a 1996 American direct-to-video animated musical fantasy adventure film produced by Walt Disney Television Animation. It is the second sequel to Disney's 1992 animated feature film Aladdin, and it serves as the final chapter and installment of the Arabian Nights-inspired Disney franchise beginning with the first film, and continuing with its first direct-to-video sequel The Return of Jafar and the animated television series.
The film takes place after the third season of the television series and is inspired by the tale Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves from One Thousand and One Nights, replacing Ali Baba with Aladdin. For the first time since the original Aladdin, the film has a completely new soundtrack instead of the rearranged music from the original film for The Return of Jafar and the series. This film also marks the return of Robin Williams, reprising his role as Genie (Dan Castellaneta voices him in the second film, the series and other media).
Although this film serves as the series finale of the television series, the characters also appear in a 1999 crossover episode of the animated series Hercules, titled "Hercules and the Arabian Night", as well as the segment More Than a Peacock Princess from the 2007 direct-to-video film Disney Princess Enchanted Tales: Follow Your Dreams, both of which occur after this plot. The film received mixed-to-negative reviews, although it was deemed an improvement over The Return of Jafar.


== Plot ==
At Agrabah, Aladdin and Princess Jasmine prepare to be married. During the ceremony, the legendary Forty Thieves appear, trying to steal a magical staff. After driving them off, Aladdin and his friends discover the Oracle, a woman within the staff who can answer a single question about absolutely anything to any individual. She hints to Aladdin that all of his questions can be answered by his father, who is still alive, much to everyone's surprise. According to her, Aladdin's father is with the Forty Thieves, "trapped within their world".
Aladdin, with Abu, Iago and Carpet, tracks the thieves and stows away into their hideout, Mount Sesame, where he discovers that his father Cassim is actually the King of Thieves, their leader. The two have a heartfelt reunion before Cassim's chief subordinate Sa'luk tries to punish Aladdin for infiltrating their hideout. Cassim, however, suggests that Aladdin instead face the initiation ritual known as "the Challenge": if he defeats another one of the Forty Thieves, he can take their place. Aladdin defeats Sa'luk and is welcomed into the band.
Cassim reveals that he left his family in search for the Hand of Midas, an artifact that can transform anything it touches to gold. Cassim believed that, with it, he could return to his family and rescue them from poverty. With the staff, he could question the Oracle for the precise whereabouts of the artifact. Aladdin convinces Cassim to return with him to Agrabah to live an honest life. Initially hesitant, Cassim agrees after realizing that the wedding can be his last chance to get the Oracle.
After spending quality time with Aladdin and his friends, Cassim decides to go forward with his original scheme, with Iago as his new henchman. Meanwhile, Sa'luk travels to Agrabah and sells out his fellow thieves by telling Razoul, the Captain of Agrabah's Royal Guard, the password to their hideout in exchange for immunity from prosecution. After all but seven of the thieves are captured, Razoul learns that Aladdin is one of the forty, and his father Cassim is the King himself. Cassim and Iago try to steal the Oracle but are captured and detained after the Sultan learns of Cassim's relationship with the Forty Thieves. Aladdin rescues Cassim and Iago but returns to the palace to take responsibility for his actions. As the Sultan is about to punish Aladdin, the Genie and Jasmine come to his defense, stating that all he wanted was to give his fath