All About Eve were an English rock band. The initial creative core consisted of Coventry-born Julianne Regan (vocals), Huddersfield-born Tim Bricheno (guitar) and Andy Cousin (bass guitar), with other members changing over the years. Their highest-charting UK single was "Martha's Harbour" (1988). The band was active from 1984 to 1993, then 1999 to 2004, achieving four UK Top-50 albums. The band had been recognised for their "unique, folk-rock-influenced take" on the gothic rock style, and Regan has been described as "certainly one of the more talented singers" of the scene in the late 1980s.


== History ==


=== Foundation ===
Julianne Regan, a former journalist, played bass in an early line-up of the gothic rock group Gene Loves Jezebel before leaving to form, with Manuela Zwingmann of Xmal Deutschland, The Swarm, the precursor to All About Eve. The band's name was taken from the 1950 film starring Bette Davis. The original line-up of All About Eve consisted of Regan, Zwingmann, former Aemotti Crii guitarist Bricheno and bassist Gus Ferguson. The band released the independent single "D for Desire" in 1985, prior to Zwingmann and Ferguson leaving, the latter joining Test Department. Bricheno suggested Cousin as a replacement for Ferguson, and so as a three-piece (plus a drum machine), they released "In the Clouds" (1986) and "Flowers in Our Hair" (1987). Both singles, "D for Desire" and "In the Clouds", were partially based on an ethereal gothic sound, sometimes compared to the music of the Cocteau Twins and Siouxsie and the Banshees.
After Regan sang backing vocals for The Mission's God's Own Medicine album, the band received greater attention and were signed to Phonogram. Drummer Mark Price was added around this time.


=== Debut and chart success ===
Their self-titled debut album was produced by Paul Samwell-Smith and released in 1988. It includes UK hit singles "In the Clouds", "Wild-Hearted Woman", "Every Angel", "Martha's Harbour", and "What Kind of Fool".
The album itself reached No. 7 on the UK Albums Chart, with much of its lyrical material drawing from hippie ideals, white magic and dreamlike fairy tales. Their music was sometimes considered gothic rock by the media.
The band later performed a dubbed version of "Martha's Harbour" on the BBC television music show Top of the Pops, but, owing to a studio technical error, the taped vocals were broadcast without the band being able to hear them, resulting in the audience of BBC1 hearing the recorded version of the song, while the band members sat motionless on screen waiting for their cue to begin. By way of compensation, the band were invited back on to the show to perform the song the following week, this time with the vocals performed live. This performance passed off smoothly, with the resultant publicity helping the track to climb the singles chart.
The following year, their second album, Scarlet and Other Stories, was released and the band toured around the UK. It also reached the top 10 of the UK Albums Chart.


=== Activity through the 1990s ===
In 1990, Bricheno left the group (later to join The Sisters of Mercy for their Vision Thing era, and subsequent bands XC-NN and Tin Star) to be replaced by The Church's Marty Willson-Piper. They went on to record Touched by Jesus in 1991 (which featured David Gilmour of Pink Floyd on guitar on two tracks), which made the UK Top 20, before changing record labels and releasing Ultraviolet, the year after. Released by MCA it reached UK No. 46. The band continued working on new material, but Regan soon left. Although remaining members continued for a couple more months without Regan's input, they disbanded in early 1993, with the album they had been working on being subsequently released under the group name Seeing Stars.
Regan went on to form Mice, and to work with Bernard Butler, and she teamed up with Jean-Marc Lederman in the Jules et Jim project.
In 1993, bassist Cousin went on to join a reformed Mission,  touring extens