All Things Fair (Swedish: Lust och fägring stor, literally "Desire and Great Beauty") is a Swedish film written and directed by Bo Widerberg. It was released to cinemas in Sweden on 3 November 1995,   and was Widerberg's final film. It tells the story of a sexual relationship between a teacher and her 15-year-old student in Malmö, Sweden during World War II. Widerberg's son Johan Widerberg stars as the boy Stig and Marika Lagercrantz plays his teacher Viola. The original title is taken from the Swedish hymn "Den blomstertid nu kommer", which is traditionally sung in schools before closing for the summer holiday.
The film won several domestic and international awards and was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film.


== Plot ==
In 1943 in the midst of World War II, Stig is a 15-year-old boy in his third year at a Malmö school, having moved with his family to the area from Stockholm two years prior. He is close with his older brother Sigge, a boxer who will soon be leaving for duty on the front lines. One day during class, Stig gets into trouble for passing notes and is asked by his teacher Viola to stay behind. She demands to see the note, which reveals the boys' ignorance about sex in embarrassing detail. As punishment, Viola has Stig wash the blackboard and get rid of the flies in the classroom. Stig develops an attraction to the married Viola and feigns an interest in her collection of dictionaries as an excuse to be around her. Viola reciprocates Stig's affections and soon they embark on an affair. Stig and Viola's husband, Kjell, happen to both be at Viola's home one day and Stig is spotted by Kjell before he can make an escape. Kjell, a salesman, is not angry at Stig and does not appear to suspect the boy of anything, assuming him to be a tutee of his wife. Kjell and Stig begin to form an easy bond over classical music, a pastime Stig's father has no appreciation for.
Meanwhile, Stig's neighbor and classmate Lisbet takes a liking to him and tries to learn the Stockholm dialect via radio to get his attention. Sigge sends Stig letters from aboard the submarine Ulven written in a special code between the two siblings. One day Kjell catches Stig walking around his house in a robe, and Stig is forced to come clean. It is revealed Kjell knew of the affair the whole time, but is unable to do anything about it. Kjell confesses his marital problems with Viola stem from his own infidelity shortly after their wedding, with the relationship not improving thereafter. Kjell's friendship with Stig continues, but his alcoholism becomes more apparent to the boy and he starts to question his relationship with Viola.
After a family party, Lisbet leads Stig to her bedroom and offers her virginity to him. Stig is flustered and Lisbet leaves, hurt by his perceived lack of interest. Later, he tries to make amends to Lisbet and sneaks into the girls' locker room at school, hiding inside a vault. He manages to get her attention from inside, and Lisbet happily climbs in with him to consummate their feelings in secret. Stig later hears an alarming radio update about a submarine explosion. He anxiously checks his letter from Sigge which confirms he was aboard the same submarine. A devastated Stig keeps the news to himself at first, but his mother deduces what has happened.  
Lisbet is at the local cinema where Stig is a concessions worker. Searching for Stig, she walks in on him having sex with Viola in a storage closet. Lisbet is disgusted and rejects Stig's apologies. Stig goes to Viola's house intending to break things off with her, but she has been drinking and is in an emotional state since being caught by Lisbet. Viola refuses to talk with him and the boy ends up succumbing to her. Later, Viola tells Stig after class one day that she has decided to fail him because he didn't pass her class. Stig knows the real reason is because of their relationship and his desire to end it. He threatens to tell the authorities about the