More American Graffiti is a 1979 American coming-of-age comedy film written and directed by Bill L. Norton, produced by Howard Kazanjian. The film, shot in multiple aspect ratios for comedic and dramatic emphasis, is the sequel to the 1973 film American Graffiti. While the first film followed a group of friends during the evening before they depart for college,  the sequel depicts where they end up on consecutive New Years Eves from 1964 to 1967.
Most of the main cast members from the first film returned for the sequel, including Candy Clark, Ron Howard, Paul Le Mat, Cindy Williams, Mackenzie Phillips, Charles Martin Smith, Bo Hopkins, and Harrison Ford. (Richard Dreyfuss was the only principal cast member from the original film not to appear in the sequel.) It was the final live-action theatrical film in which Ron Howard would play a credited, named character.


== Plot ==
The film, set over the course of four consecutive New Year's Eves from 1964 to 1967, depicts scenes from each of these years, intertwined with one another as though events happen simultaneously. The audience is protected from confusion by the use of a distinct cinematic style for each section. For example, the 1966 sequences echo the movie of Woodstock using split screens and multiple angles of the same event simultaneously on screen, the 1965 sequences (set in Vietnam) shot hand-held on grainy  super 16 mm film designed to resemble war reporters' footage. The film attempts to memorialize the 1960s with sequences that recreate the sense and style from those days, with references to Haight-Ashbury, the campus peace movement, the beginnings of the modern women's liberation movement and the accompanying social revolt. One character burns his draft card, showing a younger audience what so many Americans had done on the television news ten years before the film's release. Other characters are shown frantically disposing of their marijuana before a traffic stop as a police officer pulls them over, and another scene shows the police overreaction to a anti-Vietnam War protest.
The storylines and fates of the main characters include the following:

New Year's Eve 1964: John Milner is a drag-strip racer and falls in love with Eva, an attractive young woman from Iceland who speaks no English. Regardless, Milner does his best to communicate with her. He is briefly visited at the drag strip by Steve, Laurie, Terry, and Debbie, with Laurie pregnant and Terry in a military uniform, shipping out to Vietnam the same night.  John also briefly reunites with Carol "Rainbow" Morrison, the girl he was goaded into driving around in the first movie.   Epilogue: Milner wins the final competition of the season on New Year's Eve 1964. Later that night, he is shown driving his trademark yellow deuce coupe down a long, hilly road with another vehicle's headlights coming from the opposite direction. After disappearing over a small hill, neither Milner's taillights nor the approaching headlights are seen again. Milner, through a brief screen card, is identified as having been killed by a drunk driver. The anniversary of his death is mentioned in both the 1965 and 1966 sequences.
New Year's Eve 1965: Terry "The Toad" Fields is in Vietnam and wants desperately to get out of the war and the abuse of his superiors, attempting to injure himself to accomplish his goal. His desperation escalates after Joe Young (the leader of The Pharaohs, the lowrider gang of the previous film) is shot and killed by an enemy sniper, after promising to make Fields a Pharaoh once they finally return home. Epilogue: Fields fakes his own death and deserts, heading for Europe. His superiors believe him to be dead in 1965, as do Debbie in 1966 and Steve and Laurie in 1967.
New Year's Eve 1966: Free-spirited Debbie "Deb" Dunham has switched from Old Harper whisky to marijuana and has given up her platinum blonde persona for one as a hippie/groupie. She misses Terry, mentioning that they were planning to get married b