American Movie is a 1999 American documentary film directed by Chris Smith, produced by Smith and Sarah Price, and edited by Jun Diaz and Barry Poltermann.
American Movie received generally positive reviews, and won the Grand Jury Prize for Documentary at the 1999 Sundance Film Festival. It has since been considered a cult film.


== Background ==
Filmed between September 1995 and August 1997, American Movie documents the making of Coven, an independent short horror film directed by Wisconsin-based filmmaker Mark Borchardt. Produced for the purpose of raising capital for Northwestern, a feature film Borchardt intends to make,  Coven suffers from numerous setbacks, including poor financing, a lack of planning, Borchardt's burgeoning alcoholism, and the ineptitude of the friends and family he enlists as his production team. The documentary follows Borchardt's filmmaking process from script to screen, and is interspersed with footage from both of Borchardt's developing projects.


== Synopsis ==
In 1996 in Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin, Mark Borchardt dreams of being a filmmaker. Currently however, he delivers papers for a living, is deeply indebted, still lives with his parents, is a borderline alcoholic, and is estranged from his ex-girlfriend, who is threatening to move out of state with their three children. He acknowledges his various failures, but aspires to one day make more of his life.
Hoping to jump-start his amateur filmmaking career, Mark restarts production on Northwestern, a feature-length film he has been planning for most of his adult life. Initially, the project attracts some interest from the group of amateur actors with whom Mark has produced some radio plays, but by the fourth production meeting almost no one shows up and Mark is forced to acknowledge that he currently lacks the resources to move Northwestern past the pre-production phase.
To drum up the attention and financial resources needed to film Northwestern, Mark decides to finally complete Coven (which Borchardt mispronounces with a long 'o'), a horror short that he began shooting on 16 mm film in 1994, but ultimately abandoned. He receives financing from his Uncle Bill, a wise, but increasingly senile, eighty-two-year-old retiree who lives in a dilapidated trailer despite having $280,000 in his bank account. Bill hesitantly agrees to invest in Coven, with the goal of selling three thousand VHS copies of the movie, which Mark says will raise enough capital to finance Northwestern.
Mark restarts production on Coven, but suffers numerous mishaps. Although he is hard-working and knowledgeable about film making, he is also poor at planning ahead and inarticulate as a director. Additionally, he builds his production crew out of friends and neighbors, many of whom are incompetent at the tasks to which he assigns them. Particular attention is given to his best friend, guitarist Mike Schank, an amiable recovering alcoholic and drug addict with reduced affect who is one of the most reliable members of the crew (and also recorded the music for the soundtrack of the documentary). In their adolescence, Mark and Mike bonded over their shared love of vodka, but Mike is now sober and has joined Alcoholics Anonymous, though he has become a compulsive gambler, buying scratch-off lottery tickets from the gas station, sometimes accompanied by his AA sponsor, who then drives them both to Gamblers' Anonymous meetings; Mike reasons that, while you sometimes win and sometimes lose the lottery, you always lose with drugs and alcohol.
As the work on Coven moves forward, Mark faces the skepticism of his family and his own burgeoning alcoholism, though he does eventually wrap principal photography. At Thanksgiving dinner and, later, a family party to watch Super Bowl XXXI, he gets drunk and becomes alternately agitated, cheery, and despondent. At one point, he wistfully watches footage he shot for Northwestern back in 1990 and contemplates whether or not he is a failure.
After an 