Werewolf of London is a 1935 horror film directed by Stuart Walker and starring Henry Hull as the titular werewolf. The supporting cast includes Warner Oland, Valerie Hobson, Lester Matthews, and Spring Byington. Jack Pierce, who is best known for creating the iconic makeup worn by Boris Karloff in the 1931 film Frankenstein, created the film's werewolf makeup. Produced by Universal Pictures, Werewolf of London was the first feature-length werewolf film.


== Plot ==
Wilfred Glendon, a wealthy and world-renowned English botanist, journeys to Tibet in search of the extremely rare plant Mariphasa lupina lumina, which is rumored to be nourished by the moon. While there, he is attacked and bitten by a feral humanoid creature, but he succeeds in acquiring a specimen of Mariphasa. He constructs a lamp that simulates moonlight in his London laboratory and waits for the plant to bloom.
At a party, Wilfred is approached by fellow botanist Dr. Yogami, who claims they met, briefly, in Tibet, where he also was seeking the Mariphasa. Yogami tells Glendon the plant is a temporary antidote for "werewolfery" (or "lycanthrophobia"), and responds to Wilfred's skepticism by claiming he knows of two men in London who are werewolves, having been bitten by another werewolf.
Eventually, one flower of the Mariphasa opens under Wilfred's moon lamp. When his hand grows fur in the artificial moonlight, he cuts the blossom and dabs its sap at the fur, and he is amazed to see the transformation reverse. Yogami visits, asking for two blossoms, as that night is the first of four nights around the full moon when the werewolves he mentioned will turn if left untreated, but Wilfred refuses. Before he goes, Yogami cautions that werewolves try to kill whatever they love most.
While Wilfred researches werewolves, learning they must kill someone each night they transform, or they will not turn back, Yogami steals two newly-opened Mariphasa flowers. Wilfred chooses not to accompany his wife, Lisa, and her childhood sweetheart, Paul Ames, who is back in town for a visit, to her Aunt Ettie's party, and, soon after they leave, he transforms into a werewolf. Unable to reverse the process, he goes after Lisa, but Ettie's screams scare him away, so he settles for mauling a random woman in the street. Although they all heard a loud howl, no one at the party, other than Ettie, saw the werewolf, so they think it is just her drunken hallucination.
When Paul reads in the newspaper about the woman Wilfred killed, he begins to believe Ettie's story, having heard of something similar while in the Yucatán, and tells his uncle, Colonel Forsythe, who is the chief of Scotland Yard, but Forsythe does not take him seriously. Since the last Mariphasa blossom has not opened yet, Wilfred rents a room for the night and locks himself inside, but he breaks out after transforming. He sneaks into the zoo, where he sets a wolf free and kills a woman who has come for a tryst with the nightwatchman.
The next day, Yogami, out of Mariphasa blossoms, asks Forsythe to seize the plant from Wilfred, but Forsythe has fallen for Wilfred's red herring and says he is looking for a wolf, not a werewolf. Wilfred travels to Falden Abbey, his wife's family home in the country, and has the caretaker lock him in a room, but Lisa and Paul come to look around the property before Paul returns to California, and Wilfred, now a werewolf, sees them out the window. He breaks free and attacks, but Paul drives him off, recognizing him in the process. Paul tells Forsythe, who, though skeptical, agrees to investigate Wilfred. They are sidetracked when a dead chambermaid is found in Yogami's hotel room, which is too far from Falden for the supposed werewolf to have traveled there in one night, but Paul discovers Yogami's used Mariphasa blossoms, and Forsythe is convinced there are two werewolves on the loose.
The police search all day for Wilfred, who is hiding in his lab, waiting for the only remaining Mariphasa flower to