Amityville II: The Possession is a 1982 supernatural horror film directed by Damiano Damiani and starring James Olson, Burt Young, Rutanya Alda, Jack Magner, and Diane Franklin. The screenplay by Tommy Lee Wallace is based on the novel Murder in Amityville by the parapsychologist Hans Holzer. It is the second film in the Amityville Horror film series and a loose prequel to The Amityville Horror (1979), set at 112 Ocean Avenue and featuring the fictional Montelli family, loosely based on the DeFeo family. It follows the Montelli family's decline under apparent demonic forces present in their home.
A co-production between the United States and Mexico, principal photography took place at the same Toms River, New Jersey residence featured in the first film, while interiors were shot exclusively on soundstages at Estudios Churubusco in Mexico City. After test screenings were completed, Damiani's original cut of the film was slightly truncated to tone down its overt incestuous sexuality and a rape sequence, which audiences responded to unfavorably.
Released by Orion Pictures in the fall of 1982, Amityville II: The Possession received mixed reviews from critics, though some, such as Roger Ebert, felt it was superior to its predecessor, an opinion that has been echoed by contemporary reviewers.


== Plot ==
The Montellis, an Italian American family headed by Anthony Montelli and his wife, Dolores, move into 112 Ocean Avenue in Amityville, New York, with their children, Sonny, Patricia, Mark, and Jan.
An evil presence is shown to be lurking within the house, unknown to the family. Unusual and paranormal activities occur, such as unknown forces banging on the door at night when nobody is outside and an ugly demonic message being painted on the wall of Jan's room. For the latter, Anthony blames and beats his children, Jan and Mark, then beats Dolores for intervening, resulting in a fight between the entire family. Concerned by these developments, Dolores tries to have the local Catholic priest, Father Frank Adamsky, bless the house, but an argument breaks out within the family shortly after another demonic incident causes significant damage to the kitchen. Anthony blames the younger children again and hits Jan as Adamsky tries to intervene, but Anthony rudely orders him to leave. To Dolores' mortification, Adamsky leaves, disgusted at Anthony's behavior. He finds his car door open and the Bible on the passenger seat torn to pieces. The situation inside the home continues to deteriorate; Anthony is shown to be strict, abusive, sacrilegious towards the Catholic faith, violent towards his family, and forcing his wife to have sex with him against her will. Dolores tries to keep things together for the youngest children.
The family goes to church with Anthony, so he can apologize for being rude to Adamsky, although Anthony only agrees to do it after Dolores threatens to divorce him. Sonny stays at home, claiming to feel unwell. He soon hears an alarming noise and goes downstairs to get his father's gun. He hears demonic laughter and follows it to a tunnel in the basement. The unseen presence pursues a frightened Sonny to his room, and he then falls victim to demonic possession. Now possessed, Sonny approaches Patricia to play a game with him. They pretend he is a famous photographer and she is his nude model. Patricia agrees to pose naked, and the pair end up having incestuous sex. Patricia is then seen at confession, partially confessing to the act and telling the priest that he does it to "hurt God" but not revealing that it was her brother she slept with.
Sonny becomes more sinister and demonic, as his face starts contorting demonically. Startled, he tries to keep his family away but is unsuccessful due to the demon's influence. On Sonny's birthday, he isolates himself from his birthday party, but  Patricia goes to check on him. She tells him she does not feel guilty about what they have been doing, but due to his demonic phases and his bo