Unforgettable is an American police procedural crime drama television series that premiered on CBS on September 20, 2011. Unforgettable was developed by Ed Redlich and John Bellucci, and stars Poppy Montgomery as Detective Carrie Wells, a police detective with an unusually detailed and photographic memory.
After being canceled twice by CBS, Unforgettable was picked up by A&E for a fourth season. The season premiered on November 27, 2015, with two back-to-back episodes. In February 2016, A&E cancelled the show.


== Premise ==
Former Syracuse, New York, police detective Carrie Wells has hyperthymesia, a rare medical condition that gives her the ability to visually remember everything. She reluctantly joins the New York City Police Department's Queens homicide unit after her former boyfriend and partner, Lieutenant Al Burns, asks for help with solving a case. The move allows her to try to find out the one thing she has been unable to remember, which is what happened the day her sister was murdered.
For a time, the series had an opening monologue narrated by lead actress Poppy Montgomery. The narration was as follows:

I'm Carrie Wells. Only a few people in the world have the ability to remember everything—I'm one of them. Pick any day of my life, and I can tell you what I saw or heard: faces, conversations, clues; which comes in handy when you're a cop. If I miss something the first time, it's okay. I can go back and look again. My life ... is unforgettable.


== Episodes ==


== Cast and characters ==


=== Main ===
Poppy Montgomery as Detective Carrie Wells, an enigmatic former Syracuse police detective. Carrie has hyperthymesia, a rare medical condition that gives her the ability to visually remember everything she has seen or heard, which is helpful to investigations she conducts with her team. When she was eight years old, her older sister Rachel was murdered, which drove her to become a cop. She graduated from South Syracuse Prep in 1993, and in high school her nickname was "Scary Carrie". From 1997 to 2002, she worked for the Syracuse Police Department (she became a detective in 1999), but after her sister's murder investigation was shut down, Carrie wanted a new life and moved to New York City. Since then, Carrie has tried to put her past behind her, but in the pilot, she joined the New York City Police Department's 117th Precinct in Queens when her former lover and detective partner, Detective Al Burns, asks her for help with solving a case. The move allows her to try to find out the one thing she has been unable to remember: the man that was responsible for her sister's murder. In season two, she and Al transfer to the Major Crimes Section. In "Past Tense" (season 2, episode 5), Carrie is nominated by Eliot Delson for the NYPD Medal for Valor for talking down and apprehending an Afghanistan War veteran with post-traumatic stress disorder. In "Blast from the Past" (season 4, episode 1), Carrie is mentioned as having an unprecedented 100% case closure rating thanks to her hyperthymesia. In the same episode, it is revealed that after leaving Syracuse, she went to Daytona Beach, Florida where she spent six weeks married to Eddie Martin (Skeet Ulrich), a Daytona Beach police officer, whom she never officially divorced until now.
Dylan Walsh as Lieutenant Al Burns, the Commander of the 117th Precinct's Detective Squad. He was also Carrie's partner and lover when she worked at the Syracuse Police Department. After he comes to her for help, Carrie and Al decide to work together once again to solve various cases. Although  no longer in a relationship, they are still good friends, Al is very protective of Carrie. In season 2, he and Carrie transfer to the Major Crimes Section. In "Behind the Beat" (season 4, episode 3), it is mentioned that Al attended Ithaca College, where he learned how to play jazz trombone. As seen in "With Honor" (season 1, episode 5), Al is a recipient of the US Flag Bar, NYPD Meritorious Police Duty, NYPD