Angel and the Badman is a 1947 American Western film written and directed by James Edward Grant and starring John Wayne, Gail Russell, Harry Carey and Bruce Cabot. The film is about an injured gunfighter who is nursed back to health by a young Quaker woman and her family whose way of life influences him and his violent ways. Angel and the Badman was the first film Wayne produced as well as starred in, and was a departure for this genre at the time it was released. Writer-director James Edward Grant was Wayne's frequent screenwriting collaborator.
In 1975, the film entered the public domain in the United States because National Telefilm Associates did not renew its copyright registration in the 28th year after publication.


== Plot ==
Wounded Quirt Evans horse collapses in front of Quaker Thomas Worth's homestead. Quirt says he must get to the telegraph station. Thomas and his daughter Penelope off to drive him into town in their wagon, to which Quirt agrees. After wiring a claim to the land recorder's office, Quirt passes out. The telegraph operator, Bradley, tells Penny that Quirt is a famous gunman, and a ladies man. At the Worth's, the  doctor treats a delirious Quirt and warns the family it is dangerous to offer him shelter. Once Quirt has recovered consciousness, Penny explains the family's belief in non-violence.
Laredo Stevens and three associates ride into town looking for Quirt. Penny's younger brother Johnny warns Quirt, who prepares to leave. Penny, now smitten with Quirt, offers to run off with him. Quirt checks his gun and discovers that it has been emptied just as Steven's gang arrives. Training his weapon on the doorway, Quirt calmly greets Laredo and his gang. Thinking that Quirt has the upper hand, Laredo offers to buy his claim. When Quirt sets the price at $20,000, Laredo hands over $5,000 in gold and challenges him to come for the balance when he is able.

Afterward, Quirt prepares to leave, but when Penny begs him to stay, he changes his mind. When Quirt learns that rancher Frederick Carson dammed the stream running through the valley, draining the Worths' irrigation ditches, he intimidates Carson into opening the dam.
Penny asks Quirt to accompany the family to a Quaker meeting. Before they leave, Marshal Wistful McClintock comes to question Quirt about a stagecoach robbery. The family swears that Quirt was with them at the time. McClintock asks Quirt why he resigned as Wyatt Earp's deputy and sold his ranch, soon after Laredo gunned down Walt Ennis in a saloon brawl. When Quirt refuses to answer, McClintock leaves. When Penny begs Quirt to steer clear of Laredo, he says he will. On the way to the meeting they meet Quirt's friend Randy McCall. At the meeting Randy tells Quirt that Laredo plans to rustle a herd of cattle and suggests that they then steal the herd from Laredo and let him take the blame. Thomas presents Quirt with a Bible in gratitude for his role in ending the water feud with Carson. Fearing that he will never be able to live up to Penny's expectations, Quirt abruptly leaves with Randy.

Quirt and Randy steal the herd from the original rustlers. They then celebrate with showgirls Lila Neal and Christine Taylor. After a bar fight, Lila teases Quirt about his Bible, who gets angry and rides back to the Worth farm. Penny is pleased, but when McClintock arrives arrives to question Quirt about the rustling, Quirt says that Lila can provide him with an alibi. Penny is hurt because she heard Quirt talk about Lila in his delirium, and thinks that Quirt prefers Lila. Quirt kisses her to show who he really prefers.
McClintock warns Quirt that he is the wrong man for Penny, but Quirt proposes to her anyway. Instead of replying, Penny takes Quirt to pick blackberries. When Penny ask where he got his name he says that Walt Ennis found and raised him, and that later Ennis was murdered in a saloon brawl. On their way home,they are ambushed and chased by Laredo and Hondo. Their  wagon plunges over a cliff