The Apple Dumpling Gang is a 1975 American comedy-Western film directed by Norman Tokar. The plot is about a slick gambler named Russell Donovan (Bill Bixby) who is duped into taking care of a group of orphans who eventually strike gold. The film was produced by Walt Disney Productions.
The film is based on the 1971 novel of the same name by Jack M. Bickham. Don Tait wrote the screenplay. The so-called "Apple Dumpling Gang" are named after their favorite American dessert treat, the apple dumpling. It is also known as being the first film to feature the comedy duo of Don Knotts and Tim Conway. Knotts and Conway developed different styles of pulling off their comedy; Conway's characters were usually the less intelligent of the two, which made Knotts usually the brains of the group, though they were both equally inept. Buddy Baker composed the music for the movie and its sequel, The Apple Dumpling Gang Rides Again, with Joseph Dubin performing the orchestration. The song "The Apple Dumpling Gang", as heard in the opening and closing credits, was composed by Shane Tatum and was sung/performed by Randy Sparks and The Back Porch Majority.


== Plot ==
Set in the Wild West in the year 1879, a slick gambler named Russell Donovan (Bill Bixby) comes to the town of Quake City en route to open a casino in New Orleans. In Quake City, Donovan meets his old associate, John Wintle. Wintle is leaving for San Francisco that night and asks Donovan to sign for valuables coming in on tomorrow's stagecoach. Donovan accepts a down payment and promises to pick up the valuables. The next day, Donovan realizes he has been duped into taking care of three little orphans, Bobby, Clovis, and Celia Bradley. The stagecoach driver Magnolia "Dusty" Clydesdale (Susan Clark) explains that Wintle is in fact the children's relative and their legal guardian. With him gone and Donovan promising to care for the "valuables", they are now wards of Donovan. The town's sheriff, barber, Justice of the Peace, and judge Homer McCoy (Harry Morgan) tells Donovan that he is legally obligated unless he can have someone else take custody of the children. The children inadvertently cause Donovan much grief by offending all prospective new guardians. The Bradleys wreak havoc in Quake City while riding in an old mine cart, destroying much private property. The town's citizens demand that Donovan pay for the damages, costing him most of his funds for his trip to New Orleans.
As soon as Donovan arrived in Quake City, he became the target of the "Hashknife Outfit". The Outfit consists of two ne'er-do-well former members of the Stillwell Gang, Amos Tucker (Tim Conway) and Theodore Ogelvie (Don Knotts). They were once very threatening, until they were ousted by their former boss, Frank Stillwell (Slim Pickens), for shooting him in the leg. Amos and Theodore continuously try to rob Donovan during his stay in town with unsuccessful results.
Bobby, Clovis, and Celia decide to help their guardian earn money by going to the gold mine that they inherited. They encounter Amos and Theodore at their hideout and become acquainted. The men direct the kids to the mine after mistaking them for a posse. Despite people's belief no gold was left to find in the mine, the Bradley children discover a massive gold nugget. This incentivizes many people to adopt the children as it would give them access to the gold. Fearing that these people would not have the children's best interests at heart, Donovan arranges a sham marriage with Dusty so she can keep custody of the Bradley children while he goes to New Orleans. However, complications arise when Wintle returns. He heard of the gold and schemes to regain custody of the children. His attorney has a court order demanding immediate return of the Bradleys. McCoy is forced to adhere to Wintle's demands.
At the same time, Amos and Theodore attempt to steal the Bradleys' gold from the local bank and escape to Mexico. The Hashknife Outfit is unsuccessful when they