Ashes of Time (Chinese: 東邪西毒) is a 1994 Hong Kong film written and directed by Wong Kar-wai, and inspired by characters from Jin Yong's novel The Legend of the Condor Heroes.
Director Wong Kar Wai regards the film as his most important work.


== Background ==
In the 1960s, King Hu's Come Drink with Me raised the artistic level of wuxia films. Wong grew up immersed in wuxia culture. In 1972, Bruce Lee's The Way of the Dragon brought jianghu culture to the global stage. In the mid-1990s, wuxia films entered a new stage. Wong selected characters from "new-school" wuxia novelist Jin Yong's novel The Legend of the Condor Heroes and created an unprecedented wuxia story.
The film's story is a prequel to the novel The Legend of the Condor Heroes as it imagines the older characters when they were younger. It focuses on the main antagonist (Ouyang Feng) and humanizes him into a protagonist while retaining his despicable qualities.  Feng, known as the Western Venom, crosses paths with the other powerful wuxia masters.  Their backstories are depicted with great liberty and sometimes completely subvert the intended meaning from the novel.
During the film's long-delayed production, Wong produced a parody of the same novel with much of the same cast (in different roles) titled The Eagle Shooting Heroes.
Using negatives from around the world, Wong re-edited and re-scored the film in 2008 for future theater, DVD and Blu-ray releases under the title Ashes of Time Redux.  The film was reduced from 100 to 93 minutes.


== Cast ==
Leslie Cheung as Ouyang Feng, the Western Venom
Tony Leung Ka-fai as Huang Yaoshi, the Eastern Heretic
Brigitte Lin as Murong Yang / Murong Yin / Dugu Qiubai
Tony Leung Chiu-Wai as Blind Swordsman
Carina Lau as Peach Blossom, Blind Swordsman's wife
Charlie Yeung as Girl with mule
Jacky Cheung as Hong Qigong, the Northern Beggar
Maggie Cheung as Ouyang Feng's sister-in-law
Li Bai as Hong Qigong's wife
Siu Tak-fu
Collin Chou as Swordsman
Lau Shun


== Summary ==
The film follows the main antagonist Ouyang Feng, from the novel The Legend of the Condor Heroes, when he is a young man crossing paths with other important characters. The movie humanizes Feng and depicts the events that lead to his descent into villainy. It sometimes completely subverts the intended meaning of the novel, as in Feng's copulation with his sister-in-law, which is depicted as sinister and taboo in the book but is shown as true love in the film; the longing for her serves as a common theme that echoes throughout the movie.


== Plot ==
Set in ancient China, the film consists of five short stories each featuring a main character from the novel; with the young Ouyang Feng serving as narrator and the common link.


=== Opening ===
The story begins with Ouyang Feng – known as the Western Venom due to his mercilessness and hailing from the western province – effortlessly toying with and disposing of a group of henchmen. He narrates that he is venomous because he is enraged with jealousy.
The story flashes back to a time when Feng is younger and working as a broker for assassins in a remote,  desert region. He eagerly waits for his friend Huang, who visits him once a year around this time.


=== Act I – Huang Yaoshi (Eastern Heretic) ===
Huang Yaoshi (Eastern Heretic) kills a band of bandits to take one of their horses because his has died. He arrives at Feng's and presents to him a bottle of wine called Drunken Alive, Perish in Dreams that was given to him by a close friend, who claims the wine can wipe a person's memory and allows that person to live a new life; he proceeds to drink the wine while Feng declines. That night, Huang begins to lose his memory, hurriedly leaves and chases after a shadowy woman who had awoken him in his sleep. She may have been a fragment of his dream.
Huang arrives at a shallow river. A woman (Cherry Blossom) is standing in the river and tending to her horse. Huang seemingly still retains memory of her, looks smugly at her wh