This is a list of the novels in The Baby-Sitters Club, a children's book series created by Ann M. Martin. Titles are followed by either the date of the first printing (month and year) or by the copyright date (just the year). The first 35 novels of the original series were written by Martin, after which some of the books were ghostwritten; 44 of these were written by Peter Lerangis. Other ghostwriters include Suzanne Weyn, Jahnna M. Malcolm, and Ellen Miles.


== Original Series ==
Kristy's Great Idea  (August 1986) - The Baby-Sitters Club  is formed by four best friends: Kristy Thomas (president), Claudia Kishi (vice president), Mary Anne Spier (secretary), and Stacey McGill (treasurer).
Claudia and the Phantom Phone Calls (October 1986) - The babysitters receive mysterious phone calls while babysitting young children. Claudia believes the calls are from The Phantom Caller, a sneaky jewel thief.
The Truth About Stacey (December 1986) -  Stacey has a problem and it's not her diabetes - it's her parents. She solves her problems with her ex-best friend who is a snob, while battling a rival club called The Baby Sitters Agency, which consists of irresponsible babysitters.
Mary Anne Saves the Day (February 1987) - Mary Anne has never been a leader, but when The Baby-Sitters Club have a huge fight, she's left alone and The Baby-Sitters Club might fall apart unless she does something fast. Will she be able to save The Baby-Sitters Club?
Dawn and the Impossible Three (May 1987) - Dawn babysits three wild children of a recent divorce: Buddy, Suzi, and Marnie Barrett. Kristy thinks things were better without Dawn, but Dawn aims to prove her wrong.
Kristy's Big Day (July 1987) - Kristy's mother is getting married! The Baby-Sitters Club babysits for the children of the guests, which causes chaos.
Claudia and Mean Janine (September 1987) - Claudia has issues with her genius sister Janine, even after her grandmother Mimi has a stroke.
Boy-Crazy Stacey (November 1987) - Stacey, while spending two weeks at the Jersey shore as one of two helpers to the Pike family, gets a crush on a lifeguard at the beach.
The Ghost at Dawn's House (January 1988) - Dawn thinks that her new house is haunted, especially after she makes a startling discovery inside the house - and it's not imaginary.
Logan Likes Mary Anne! (February 1988) - Logan Bruno has just moved to Stoneybrook from Kentucky and met Mary Anne, and he is in love with her. Plus, she likes him back! But Cokie Mason and her friends are fighting for him too.
Kristy and the Snobs (March 1988) - Kristy moves to a new neighborhood following her mother's marriage, where she is made to feel inferior to the other residents, especially when they make fun of her sick dog.
Claudia and the New Girl (April 1988) - An artistic new student, Ashley Wyeth, tries to convince Claudia to quit The Baby-Sitters Club.
Good-bye Stacey, Good-bye (May 1988) - Stacey moves back to New York, and the members of The Baby-Sitters Club find it hard saying goodbye to her as best friends
Hello, Mallory (June 1988) - Following Stacey's move, The Baby-Sitters Club invites Mallory Pike to join the club, if she passes a series of tests. Upon learning that she failed the tests, Mallory, along with her new friend Jessica "Jessi" Ramsey, decide to start their own babysitting club. Meanwhile, the members of The Baby-Sitters Club are realizing that they are too busy and might not be able to take every babysitting job that they are offered. Could Mallory and her new friend Jessi be the solution to the club's problem?
Little Miss Stoneybrook ... and Dawn (August 1988) - The Baby-Sitters Club gets involved in a children's beauty contest.
Jessi's Secret Language (September 1988) - Jessi babysits a deaf boy, and learns sign language, which she uses to help break down barriers.
Mary Anne's Bad Luck Mystery (October 1988) - Mary Anne gets mysterious letters saying she will have bad luck.
Stacey's Mistake (November 1988) - Stacey invites Kristy,