Superbabies: Baby Geniuses 2 (or Baby Geniuses 2: Superbabies or Baby Geniuses 2) is a 2004 American family action comedy film directed by Bob Clark and written by Gregory Poppen, from a story by Steven Paul. The sequel to the 1999 film Baby Geniuses, it stars Jon Voight, Scott Baio, and Vanessa Angel. Following the events of the first film, four babies can communicate with each other using baby talk and have knowledge of many secrets. The baby geniuses become involved in a scheme by media mogul Bill Biscane, later revealed to be known as Kane, who kidnaps children everywhere. Helping the geniuses is a legendary super-baby named Kahuna who stops Biscane's plots and saves children from being kidnapped by Biscane and his minions. He joins up with several other babies in an attempt to stop Biscane, who intends to use a state-of-the-art satellite system to control the world's population by brainwashing them and forcing people to not be active and watch TV for the rest of their lives.
Like its predecessor, Superbabies: Baby Geniuses 2 was panned by audiences and critics alike and is often regarded as one of the worst films of all time. It was a box-office bomb, earning less than half its budget back and was nominated at the 25th Golden Raspberry Awards for Worst Picture. It is the final film Bob Clark directed before his death in 2007. Three direct-to-video sequels followed the film, Baby Geniuses and the Mystery of the Crown Jewels (2013), Baby Geniuses and the Treasure of Egypt (2014), Baby Geniuses and the Space Baby (2015), with Voight appearing as various characters throughout the series.


== Plot ==
The film starts with a group of babies in a daycare center. Archie, the cousin of Sly and Whit from the first Baby Geniuses, tells his friends, Finkleman, Alex, and Rosita, a story about Kahuna, his distant relative. He says Kahuna is a super baby with super strength and seemingly doesn't age, and he once rescued a group of children from an evil orphanage at the Berlin Wall run by a villainous overseer named Bill Biscane.
Back in the present day, Archie's father Stan Bobbins, Dan Bobbins's brother, who runs the daycare and a chain just like them, allows his center to be used as a filming location by the now TV mogul Biscane/Kane, who is starting up his own TV channel. Archie and the other babies sneak into Stan's office and decide to research Biscane but are caught. Archie overhears Biscane's helpers talking about their plan, accidentally attracting their attention, but he is rescued by Kahuna. Kylie the babysitter takes them all out to the children's museum, but Biscane's helpers accidentally knock their disc into the stroller. After a pursuit, Kahuna rescues them all; he then takes them all to his base. Kahuna transforms the babies into "superbabies": Archie is Brain Boy, Alex is Bouncing Boy, Rosita is Cupid Girl, and Finkleman is Baby Courageous.
Later, Archie eavesdrops on Kylie and Zach, Kahuna's helper; Zack tells her that Kahuna's father was a scientist and developed a formula for a potion. Kahuna enters the lab, and a mysterious person tries to drink the potion but accidentally chucks it when a storm breaks through the window. It lands and Kahuna drinks it, transforming him into a super baby. Kahuna's brother became jealous and annoyed at his brother, whom his friends call a freak. When the father died, Kahuna was put into an orphanage; after escaping, he set out to rescue babies and children everywhere.
The next day, Zack and Kylie find the disc that fell in the stroller earlier. The disc contains a clip of the program that is to be aired on Biscane's TV channel, followed by seemingly random code; they realize that Biscane is up to no good. The group spies on Biscane as he prepares to launch his channel, but Kahuna figures out that Biscane plans to take over the world through his TV channel by hypnotizing kids to never go outside, so he attacks the broadcast satellites, which causes him to disappear.
The babies decide t