Bang Bang! is a 2014 Indian Hindi-language action comedy film directed by Siddharth Anand and produced by Parth Arora of Star Studios. The film is an official remake of the 2010 American film Knight and Day and stars Hrithik Roshan,  Katrina Kaif, Javed Jaffrey, and Pavan Malhotra. In the film, a mysterious thief encounters with an unassuming bank receptionist, which sets off a chain of events resulting in a series of escapades.
Bang Bang! was made on a budget of ₹140 crore (US$22.94 million). It was released in conventional and IMAX theatres on 2 October 2014, coinciding with Gandhi Jayanti and was also released with dubbed versions on the same date simultaneously in Telugu and Tamil. The film grossed ₹332 crore (US$54.4 million) globally to become one of the top grossing Bollywood films of 2014.


== Plot ==
After a treaty between India and the United Kingdom to expedite extradition of notorious terrorist Omar Zafar to India is passed, Col. Viren Nanda gets killed and burnt alive by Omar in London during his escape from prison. Omar, who gets escorted by his trusted Lt. Hamid Gul, declares US$5 million reward for an Indian thief to steal the Koh-i-Noor.
A mysterious person Rajveer Nanda steals the diamond, where he demands US$20 million as Zafar and Gul aim to retrieve it. After a subsequent brawl with Gul's men at a local restaurant in Shimla, Rajveer visits a restaurant and meets Harleen Sahni, a bank receptionist. Harleen is waiting for her blind internet date Vickie Kapoor. Rajveer assumes the date and the pair fall for each other, but is forced to abandon her after being found by Gul's men. Harleen leaves upon learning the truth, but on her way back home, bumps again into Rajveer, who seeks her help to remove a bullet. Before leaving, Rajveer drugs her with a sedative water and informs her of scare tactics that some law enforcement officials will try and coerce her into working against him.
Rajveer's prediction comes true as two government agents Zorawar Kalra and his informer Inspector Bhola implore Harleen to travel with them to the police station, but instead head for a safe place. Taking note of Rajveer's instructions, Harleen finds a pistol and holds them at gunpoint. Rajveer arrives and the pair escape, but meet Harleen's manager Karan Saxena, who is shot in the leg by Rajveer. Harleen demands that she return home and tells that she made a huge mistake by trusting Rajveer, which leads to an argument over their loyalties, but Harleen eventually decides to stay upon realizing that he truly intends to protect her and proceeds to accompany him. During a visit to a Pizza Hut outlet, Rajveer reveals that he stole the Koh-i-Noor, much to Harleen's surprise, and the pair are immediately confronted by Zorawar and his team. 
Rajveer tranquilizes Harleen and escape with her. Harleen wakes up at a beach after an unknown period on the run. When Harleen takes Rajveer's phone to call her grandmother, the government officials and Gul's men, led by Gul's Lt. Robert, tracks them down and a shootout ensues, which forces the duo to escape again after eliminating the officials and Robert's henchmen. Harleen wakes up the following morning in Prague, where she regains her faith in Rajveer after recognizing his efforts in leading the escape. Later, they track Gul to a casino and after a plot involving Harleen, Rajveer ultimately kills Gul. Harleen is taken to the Indian Embassy, where she meets Zorawar and his boss RAW Chief Narayanan as he gives her a tracking device to pinpoint Rajveer's location and retrieve the Koh-i-Noor. 
After another argument on a bridge as they try to escape, Rajveer activates the tracking device and gives the Koh-i-Noor to Harleen, where he gets shot while jumping off the bridge. Harleen returns home and reunite with her grandmother, but begins to miss Rajveer. In a moment of epiphany, Harleen locates his house and meets Rajveer's father Pankaj and his mother Shikha by posing as a delivery runner for Pankaj's b