Battlefield Earth (subtitled on-screen: A Saga of the Year 3000) is a 2000 American science fiction film based on the 1982 novel of the same name by Scientology founder L. Ron Hubbard. It was directed by Roger Christian and stars John Travolta, Barry Pepper, and Forest Whitaker. The film follows a rebellion against the alien Psychlos, who have ruled Earth for 1,000 years.
Travolta, a Scientologist, began attempting to adapt Battlefield Earth in the mid-1990s. He was unable to obtain major studio funding because of concerns regarding the script and its connections to Scientology. In 1998, it was picked up by the independent production company Franchise Pictures, which specialized in rescuing stars' pet projects. Production began in 1999, largely funded by the German distribution company Intertainment AG. Travolta, as co-producer, also contributed millions of dollars; he envisioned Battlefield Earth as the first in a two-part adaptation of the book, as it only covers the first half of the novel's story.
The film was unanimously panned by critics who criticized nearly every aspect of the film, including the performances, direction, screenplay, cinematography, special effects, pacing and plot. Released to a critical and commercial failure, it is frequently described as one of the worst films of all time and the worst received film in Travolta's filmography. Audiences were reported to have ridiculed early screenings and stayed away from the film after its opening weekend. It received eight Golden Raspberry Awards, the most given to any film. This record stood until 2012 when Jack and Jill received ten. In 2010, it won Worst Picture of the Decade.
In 2007, Franchise Pictures was sued by its investors and went bankrupt after it emerged that it had fraudulently overstated the film's budget by $31 million; this, coupled with the film's poor reception, ended Travolta's plans for a sequel.


== Plot ==
In 3000 AD, Jonnie Goodboy Tyler lives in the Rocky Mountains with a band of cave-dwellers who fear the "demons" that rule Earth. Jonnie doubts their stories and rejects their hopeless outlook. He rides into the lowlands, where two hunters show him a desolate and overgrown city. While exploring it, he is captured by the demons, a cruel alien species called Psychlos, and taken as a slave to a base in the ruins of Denver. The base is covered with an enormous dome that provides the Psychlos with a breathable atmosphere. Jonnie shows resourcefulness in captivity, drawing the respect of the other human slaves and the interest of Terl, the high-born Earth security chief.
Terl learns from a visiting supervisor that his temporary assignment on Earth will be extended indefinitely as punishment for offending a politician. Desperate to leave, he hatches a plan with his assistant Ker. They know about a recently exposed gold deposit in an area with elevated radiation levels. Gold is valuable to the Psychlos, who have been reporting losses from their mining operations, but radiation causes their air mixture to explode. Terl and Ker will train humans to mine the gold, and Terl will use part of it to bribe his way off the planet.
Terl places Jonnie in a learning machine that rapidly teaches him Psychlo language and technology. Jonnie shares his knowledge with other slaves while hiding it from Terl and Ker. After Jonnie stages an unsuccessful escape attempt, Terl takes him to the Denver Library hoping to impress him that human knowledge is no match for the Psychlos. Jonnie reads the Declaration of Independence and is inspired to seek not only escape but reconquest. Jonnie's fiancée Chrissy is captured while searching for him and fitted with an explosive collar. Terl tells Jonnie that she will be killed if he does not obey.
Believing that the slaves are subdued, Terl blackmails the planet administrator to let him order the gold mining operation. Jonnie receives further training to pilot aircraft and is sent to the mining site with a team. He leaves half of 