Beverly Hills Cop III is a 1994 American action comedy film starring Eddie Murphy and directed by John Landis, who had previously worked with Murphy on Trading Places and Coming to America. It is the third film in the Beverly Hills Cop franchise. Murphy again plays Detroit detective Axel Foley, who once again returns to Beverly Hills and teams up with detective Billy Rosewood (Judge Reinhold) to stop a gang of counterfeiters at a local amusement park called Wonder World.
The film features a number of cameo appearances by well-known film personalities, including Robert B. Sherman, Arthur Hiller, John Singleton, Joe Dante, Barbet Schroeder, Peter Medak, special effects legend Ray Harryhausen, and George Lucas as a ride patron. It is also the first film in the series not to involve producers Don Simpson and Jerry Bruckheimer, who opted out of the film's production due to budgetary disagreements.
Beverly Hills Cop III was released on May 25, 1994, and grossed $42.6 million in the United States, and $76.5 million at the foreign box office for a worldwide total of $119.2 million. The film received negative reviews from critics, and was considered by them and Murphy himself as the weakest film in the trilogy. A sequel titled Beverly Hills Cop: Axel F, which is scheduled to be released on Netflix on July 3, 2024, thirty years after the release of this movie.


== Plot ==
Detroit Police Department detective Axel Foley plans to arrest a car theft ring at a chop shop. Unbeknownst to his superior, Inspector G. Douglas Todd, Axel cancels his SWAT backup, planning to use only his team for the raid. 
Meanwhile, a group of four men arrive at the chop shop to pick up a stolen box truck; the leader of the group confirms the truck still has its cargo—crates apparently belonging to the U.S. government—then has his men execute the car thieves. The group prepares to leave when Axel and his team launch their raid, but are outgunned. Todd, arriving moments later, is killed by the group's leader. When the group flees in the box truck, Axel gives chase, but is intercepted by Secret Service Agent Steve Fulbright. He informs Axel that the killer must remain on the loose because the federal government is pursuing a larger scheme in which he is involved.
After Todd's funeral, Axel learns that several clues left behind by the killers point to Wonder World, a theme park in Beverly Hills, California, owned by "Uncle Dave" Thornton. Axel arrives in Beverly Hills and reunites with his friend Billy Rosewood, now promoted to "Deputy Director of Operations for Joint Systems Interdepartmental Operational Command" (DDO-JSIOC), and meets Jon Flint, Billy's new partner after John Taggart's retirement. Flint calls his friend Ellis DeWald, head of Wonder World's park security, to let him know that Axel is coming to the park for his investigation. 
Axel befriends park employee Janice Perkins whilst touring the park's behind-the-scenes facilities. He is observed by security, then shot at and attacked hand-to-hand. Axel retreats to the surface, where he cuts in line to enter the Spider Ferris wheel ride. Axel rescues two children from the Spider after the guards accidentally jam the ride and is brought to park manager Orrin Sanderson. When DeWald is called in to contest Axel's claim that he was attacked by the security guards without prior challenge, Axel recognizes DeWald as Todd's killer, but Rosewood and Flint refuse to believe him because of DeWald's impeccable public reputation. 
Later, Axel is visited in his motel room by Uncle Dave and Janice. They inform him that the Wonder World park's designer and Dave's close friend, Roger Frye, has mysteriously disappeared while inspecting the grounds two weeks earlier, leaving only a letter with a cryptic message. Axel and Rosewood attend a banquet to honor DeWald as private law enforcement officer of the year and meet Axel's old friend Serge. Axel tries to heckle DeWald into revealing his criminal activities, but DeWald resis