Beverly Hills Cop II is a 1987 American buddy cop action comedy film directed by Tony Scott, written by Larry Ferguson and Warren Skaaren, and starring Eddie Murphy. It is the sequel to the 1984 film Beverly Hills Cop and the second installment in the Beverly Hills Cop film series. Murphy returns as Detroit police detective Axel Foley, who reunites with Beverly Hills detectives Billy Rosewood (Judge Reinhold) and John Taggart (John Ashton) to stop a criminal organization after Captain Andrew Bogomil (Ronny Cox) is shot and seriously wounded.
The film received mixed reviews from critics on release, but it was a box office success, grossing $299 million worldwide, the highest grossing film of Beverly Hills Cop film series. Additionally, the film was nominated for an Oscar, as well as a Golden Globe Award for Best Original Song, for Bob Seger's "Shakedown". A sequel, Beverly Hills Cop III, was released in 1994.


== Plot ==
Two years after the events of the first film, Beverly Hills Police Department, Captain Andrew Bogomil, Detective Billy Rosewood, and Sergeant John Taggart are investigating a series of high-value robberies called the Alphabet Crimes. At each crime scene is left an encrypted letter marked with an alphabetic character distinctive to each heist. Complicating matters is the new political state of the Beverly Hills PD led by the egotistical, incompetent and verbally abusive new police chief Harold Lutz, who suspends Bogomil in retaliation for Rosewood contacting the FBI for assistance, using Mayor Ted Egan's political ambitions as an excuse. Lutz also punishes Rosewood and Taggart by demoting them to traffic duty. On his way home, Bogomil is lured into a trap by ruthless henchwoman Karla Fry, the chief enforcer of mastermind Maxwell Dent and left with near-fatal gunshot wounds and a letter marked "B". 
Learning of Bogomil's attack on a news report, Detroit police detective Axel Foley travels to Beverly Hills to investigate who attacked Bogomil and why. Reviewing expertly modified bullet casings from the "A" jewelry heist, Axel investigates a local gunclub where he learns that similar casings were made for the club's manager Charles Cain. Furious that Cain used weapons that could be traced to the club, Dent who is his boss, orders Cain to kill Axel. 
The assassination attempt by Cain's men fails but Axel recovers a matchbook, from which he recovers Cain's fingerprint, and breaks into the gunclub at night, finding a set of coordinates. The coordinates lead Axel, Rosewood, and Taggart to the city deposit, the "C" and "D" crime. They successfully foil the robbery, and pursue the perpetrators' armored car through Beverly Hills in a cement mixer truck, causing large amounts of collateral damage. Though they lose the truck, Axel, Rosewood, and Taggart trace the escape vehicle to the Playboy Mansion and infiltrate it, confronting Karla and Dent. 
Axel learns from Dent's accountant Sidney Bernstein that Dent and Karla are planning to leave the country to Costa Rica, while Bogomil's daughter Jan discovers that Dent's companies are financially struggling and he has allowed the insurance to lapse on all of them except for his racetrack, Emperium Fields. Deciphering the "D" letter, Axel learns that it is signed Carlos and realizes Dent is framing Cain for the crimes. Karla and her men rob the race track and kill Cain. Lutz publicly announces that the Alphabet Crimes have been solved, but Axel notices red mud at the stables, identical to traces he found on Bogomil's running shoes. This leads him, Taggart, and Rosewood to Dent's oil field, where Dent is using the $10 million raised from his crimes to purchase weapons from arms dealer Nikos Thomopolis.
Axel, Rosewood, and Taggart get into a shootout and manage to destroy the trucks carrying the shipments with explosives. Dent confronts Axel in the warehouse, but Axel gets distracted by one of Dent's henchmen on the roof above him so Dent gets away. Dent then crashes through the wa