Bird on a Wire is a 1990 American  action comedy film directed by John Badham and starring Mel Gibson and Goldie Hawn. Gibson portrays a man in the witness protection program who is unexpectedly reunited with his former girlfriend, played by Hawn, and both find themselves on the run. Critical reception was mixed, but the film was a box office hit. 


== Plot ==
Attorney Marianne "Muffie" Graves, unexpectedly crosses paths with her hippie ex-fiancé Rick Jarmin while in Detroit for a business deal. Jarmin is hiding under an assumed identify as part of the Witness Protection Program and claims to be another man. Marianne believed Jarmin died in a plane crash and discreetly follows him to confirm his true identity. She observes an attempt on his life by murderous drug-smuggling DEA agents Eugene Sorenson and Albert "Diggs" Diggins. Sorenson was released from prison after serving fifteen years due to Jarmin's testimony. She helps Rick go on the run.
Rick's old FBI handler has retired and the new one, FBI agent Joe Weyburn, is being blackmailed into colluding with Sorenson. Marianne angrily confronts Rick about his leaving her without warning fifteen years ago, but he says he was worried about his safety. They reconcile and have sex.
Unwilling to trust local police or Weyburn, Rick wants to reach his old handler Lou Baird in Wisconsin. Rick and Maryanne use contacts from his former life-in-hiding, including at a beauty salon where he was pretending to be an effeminate gay man and was the star hairdresser, and visiting old flame Rachel Varney, now a veterinarian who helps Rick and Maryanne escape from a hitman murderous duo following in a helicopter. 
Reaching Baird's home, they learn he suffers from Alzheimer's, doesn't remember Rick and can offer no help. Sorenson, Diggs and Weyburn show up, so Rick and Marianne retreat to a nearby zoo where Rick once worked. He releases animals from their cages to assist in their defense, and Diggs is mauled to death by a lion, while Weyburn is eaten by piranhas. Sorenson winds up electrocuted. Wounded, Rick winds up suspended over a tiger in a cage, requiring Marianne to save him. When she is not quite able to reach him, he offers her the extra incentive of marriage and children, which does the trick. 
Rick and Marianne are seen boating into the sunset in the Caribbean, having recovered from their injuries and planning their lives together.


== Cast ==
Mel Gibson as Richard "Rick" Jarmin
Goldie Hawn as Marianne Graves
David Carradine as Eugene Sorenson
Bill Duke as Albert "Diggs" Diggins
Stephen Tobolowsky as Joe Weyburn
Joan Severance as Rachel Varney
Jeff Corey as Lou Baird


== Production ==
Bird on a Wire was filmed mainly in British Columbia, Canada. The alley motorcycle chase scene was filmed in Victoria's Chinatown, in Fan Tan Alley.
The title refers to the Leonard Cohen song "Bird on the Wire", which is sung by Aaron Neville for the film. 


== Reception ==
Bird on a Wire gained a mixed to negative reception. According to Rotten Tomatoes, the film is "rotten" with only 25% of reviews from professional critics being positive. 

A review in Variety called it "an overproduced, tedious road movie" and wrote that "Frank Capra's It Happened One Night established the format, but John Badham is stuck with a terrible script on this 1990s version. Only the chemistry of Goldie Hawn and Mel Gibson makes the film watchable." Desson Howe of The Washington Post wrote his review of the film in the style of an autopsy, opening it by saying "The Names: Mel Gibson and Goldie Hawn. The Movie: "Bird on a Wire". The Reason: Information currently unavailable." Owen Gleiberman gave the film a D grade in Entertainment Weekly, where he wrote that "even in an era of paint-by-numbers moviemaking, director John Badham (Saturday Night Fever, Stakeout) has pulled off a feat: He has made a film that's 100 percent generic. It should have been called ROMANTIC ACTION COMEDY." Roger Ebert gave the film a two-and-a-half-sta