Blast from the Past is a 1999 American romantic comedy science fantasy adventure film directed and co-produced by Hugh Wilson, based on a story by Wilson –who co-wrote the screenplay with Bill Kelly– and starring Brendan Fraser, Alicia Silverstone, Christopher Walken, Sissy Spacek, and Dave Foley. The film focuses on Adam Webber, who was born and brought up in a Cold War-era fallout shelter built by his survivalist, anti-Communist father. After 35 years Adam emerges into the modern world, where his innocence and old-fashioned views put him at comedic odds with others.
The film received mixed reviews from critics and was a box office disappointment.


== Plot ==
In 1962, eccentric American scientist Dr. Calvin Webber believes nuclear war with the Soviet Union is imminent, and builds a secret fallout shelter beneath his backyard. Alarmed by the Cuban Missile Crisis, Calvin takes his pregnant wife Helen into the shelter. When an unexpected mechanical failure aboard an F-86 Sabre causes the aircraft to crash into the house above, Calvin assumes the worst and activates the shelter's time-locks for 35 years. With the house completely destroyed by the crash, the Webbers' neighbors and authorities assume they were killed and their property is left abandoned.
Helen gives birth to Adam who is educated to a high standard by his father (including becoming fluent in several languages) and grows up on 1950s-era pop culture like I Love Lucy and The Honeymooners, and pop standards by Perry Como and Dean Martin. Above ground, a diner opens in 1965 where a young resident named Melker gets his first job working as a soda jerk. The diner is sold and turned into a pizzeria, then becomes a punk club named Purgatory as the suburban neighborhood deteriorates over the decades into an inner city ghetto. By 1995, Melker is a bitter middle-aged alcoholic living in the club's condemned remains.
When the shelter unlocks in 1997, Calvin mistakes the now-blighted neighborhood for a post-apocalyptic wasteland of irradiated mutants and decides the family must stay underground over the objections of Helen, who, unlike Calvin (who enjoys the seclusion) and Adam (who knows nothing else), has never taken to living in the shelter. With supplies running out and Calvin falling ill, Adam leaves the shelter for the first time to obtain food. He meets Melker, who had encountered Calvin the previous night, bursting through the floor in his radiation suit. The old man convinces himself that Adam is a god. Marveling at the outside world, Adam purchases supplies, but then cannot remember his way back to the elevator.
Trying to sell his father's classic baseball cards at a hobby shop, Adam meets Eve Rustikov, who stops the store owner from cheating Adam and is fired. Eve drives Adam to a Holiday Inn in exchange for a rare card but returns the next morning out of guilt. Adam asks her to help him. Unaware of the value of money, Adam agrees to her request for $1,000 a week, while also asking Eve to help him find a wife who is "not a mutant" and is from Pasadena, California, per his mother's advice. Adam meets Eve's gay housemate and best friend Troy, who provides him with advice and a fashion makeover.
Eve and Troy take Adam to a '40s swing-style nightclub to find him a wife. Adam attracts the attention of several women, including Eve's nemesis Sophie. Jealous, Eve reconnects with her ex-boyfriend Cliff and gets him to provoke Adam into a fight, relenting when Adam demonstrates his boxing skills (having trained every day with his father). Eve is disgusted and goes home. Troy later tells her Adam left the club with Sophie. Adam returns, explaining that he politely rejected Sophie's advances, as he could only think about Eve. He and Eve kiss, but when Adam admits the truth about his past and his desire to take her to be his wife "underground", she asks him to leave.
Finding the club, where Melker has recruited a full congregation to worship him, Adam returns to Eve's house, where