A blind date is a romantic meeting between two people who have never met before.
Both parties arrange a date with little to no information about each other, hoping for a possibility of making a lasting impression. Typically, a family member or a friend is responsible for arranging this meet-up, and the date is always unexpected. Blind dates often involve a sense of anticipation and excitement, as both individuals embark on a journey of discovery. Despite the initial uncertainty, they offer an opportunity for spontaneity and genuine connections. It is often a great start, helping us to be ourself and accept others no matter what.
Some apps which are used and helped users find their possibly upcoming partner, are:
Blinddate.com, Blindlee, Tawkify, Blindfold e.t.c
While it's origin is unknown, it has been saidthat they were popularized in the early 20th century in the United States or in the early matchmaking efforts in Jewish communities in Eastern Europe in the 19th century. It has been quite some time since blind dates has been around. They gained traction as a way to facilitate romantic connections in a controlled, somewhat mysterious setting 


== Etymology ==
The term "blind date" derives from its constituent words, "blind" (i.e., something done without knowledge of certain facts) and "date" (i.e., a social engagement between two persons that often has a romantic character). Coined in the United States during the 1920s, it originally referred to the activity itself (1921), then later to the participants (1925).


== Structure ==
A blind date is arranged by a mutual acquaintance of both participants. The two people who take part in the blind date may have never met or seen each other, hence the phrase "blind date". Therefore, it is the responsibility of the acquaintance who arranges the date to ensure that they are a good match. 
Sometimes one person is more interested than the other, which may make it more difficult on the person arranging the date to judge whether the date will be successful.
The date is usually two hours or less, as it is just a first date and is really meant to introduce the two people more than it is meant to create a relationship.
Furthermore, due to the unfamiliarity of the two people, the date is shorter than most because they are in the beginning stages of a relationship. 
The date is also very adventurous in the way that neither party knows what to expect and whether or not they will hit it off. The location of the date is also affected by the spontaneity in that it is often a neutral and public place so that both parties feel comfortable.


=== Online dating ===

Family and friends have been less influential over the dating market for the past 60 years.  Since 1997, the rise of the Internet has also displaced the neighborhood, the workplace, and the circle of friends as sources of dating partners. As of May 2013, it was estimated that 11% of adult Americans had used online dating websites or mobile dating applications, and 59% of American Internet users agreed that online dating was a good way to meet people (as of 2013). China's largest online dating site reported over 100 million users in September 2013. For couples that have been together for more than a year, the choice of venue (online vs. real life) had little influence on relationship success.
Online dating services ask questions in the form of a survey in order to get to know the user better and to understand what they are looking for in a relationship. After the information is gathered, the matching users would be found based on various algorithms. The users are then encouraged to communicate with each other.
According to a study done by Match.com, in an effort to determine how much impact their services are having on the way relationships develop today, "17% of couples married in the last 3 years met each other on an online dating site" and "1 out of 5 single people have dated someone they met on an online dating site".
Nonetheless, ther