Blow-Up (sometimes styled as Blowup or Blow Up) is a 1966 psychological mystery film directed by Michelangelo Antonioni, co-written by Antonioni and Tonino Guerra and produced by Carlo Ponti. It is Antonioni's first entirely English-language film and stars David Hemmings, Vanessa Redgrave and Sarah Miles. Also featured was 1960s model Veruschka. The plot was inspired by Argentine writer Julio Cortázar's 1959 short story "Las babas del diablo".
The story is set within the contemporary mod subculture of Swinging London, and follows a fashion photographer (Hemmings) who believes he has unwittingly captured a murder on film. The screenplay was by Antonioni and Tonino Guerra, with English dialogue by British playwright Edward Bond. The cinematographer was Carlo di Palma. The film's non-diegetic music was scored by American jazz pianist Herbie Hancock, and the English rock group The Yardbirds are seen performing "Stroll On".
In the main competition section of the 1967 Cannes Film Festival, Blow-Up won the Palme d'Or, the festival's highest honour. The American release of the counterculture-era film with its explicit sexual content defied Hollywood's Production Code, and its subsequent critical and commercial success influenced the abandonment of the code in 1968 in favour of the MPAA film rating system.
Blow-Up would influence subsequent films, including Francis Ford Coppola's The Conversation (1974) and Brian De Palma's Blow Out (1981). In 2012, Blow-Up was ranked No. 144 in the Sight & Sound critics' poll of the world's greatest films.


== Plot ==
After spending the night at a doss house, where he has taken pictures for a book of art photographs, photographer Thomas is late for a photo shoot with model Veruschka at his studio, which in turn makes him late for a shoot with other models later in the morning. He grows bored and walks off, leaving the models and production staff in the lurch. As he leaves the studio, two teenage aspiring models ask to speak to him, but he brushes them off and drives off to visit an antique shop.
Wandering into Maryon Park, Thomas furtively takes photographs of two lovers. The woman, Jane, is furious at being photographed and pursues Thomas, demanding his film and attempting to take his camera. He refuses, and continues to photograph her as she runs away through the park. Thomas then meets his agent Ron for lunch and notices a man following him and looking into his car. Back at his studio, Jane arrives, asking desperately for the film. She and Thomas have a conversation and flirt, but he deliberately hands her a different roll of film. She, in turn, gives him a false telephone number.
Thomas makes several blow-ups of the film of Jane and her lover, which reveal Jane worriedly looking at a third person lurking in the trees with a pistol. Thomas excitedly calls Ron, claiming that his impromptu photo session may have saved a man's life. Thomas is then disturbed by a knock on the door. It is the two teenage girls again, with whom he has a sexual encounter in his studio before falling asleep. After awakening, he learns that the girls hope he will photograph them, but realises that there may be more to the photograph in the park. He tells them to leave, saying, "Tomorrow! Tomorrow!"
Further examination of a blurred figure on the ground under a bush in one of the blow-ups makes Thomas suspect the man in the park may have been murdered after all. As evening falls, Thomas goes back to the park and finds the body, but he has not brought his camera and is scared off by the sound of a twig breaking. Thomas returns to his studio to find it ransacked, with all of the negatives and prints gone except for one very grainy blow-up of what is possibly the body.
After driving into town, he sees Jane and follows her into the Ricky-Tick club, where The Yardbirds (with both Jeff Beck and Jimmy Page on guitars) are performing the song "Stroll On". A buzz in Jeff Beck's amplifier angers him so much that he smashes his guitar 