Blues Brothers 2000 is a 1998 American musical action comedy film directed by John Landis from a screenplay written by Landis and Dan Aykroyd, both of whom were also producers, and starring Aykroyd and John Goodman. The film serves as a sequel to the 1980 film The Blues Brothers. It also includes cameo appearances by various musicians.
The film was released on February 6, 1998, to mixed-to-negative reviews from critics. It grossed $32.1 million on a budget of $30 million. The film is dedicated to John Belushi, Cab Calloway and John Candy, cast members from the original film who had died prior to its production, in addition to Junior Wells, who died one month before it was released.


== Plot ==
Elwood Blues is released from prison after serving eighteen years for the events of the previous film and is informed that his brother, "Joliet" Jake Blues, has died. He is picked up by Matara, a friend who works for his former drummer Willie Hall, who wants to help him get back on his feet.
Before meeting up with Willie, Elwood asks to be dropped off to see Mother Mary Stigmata who is now working at a hospital after the orphanage was closed. She informs him that Curtis has also died but fathered an illegitimate son named Cabel Chamberlain, who is an Illinois State Police commander, and introduces him to an orphan named Buster to suggest mentoring him.
Against Stigmata’s advice, Elwood tracks Cabel down at his police headquarters to inform him of his real father and asks him to join The Blues Brothers Band, which he plans on reforming. Cabel, upset by the news and offended by the suggestion to join him after seeing Elwood's and Jake's criminal histories, throws him out of the building, where Buster steals his wallet; it contains enough money for Elwood to purchase a new Bluesmobile.
Elwood and Buster begin tracking down members of the former band to recruit them from their current jobs. Willie runs a strip club and joins after it is burned down by the Russian mafia because Elwood enlisted the help of Willie's barman, "Mighty" Mack McTeer, to try and convince them to leave the club alone, by getting two of the mobsters drunk and leaving them bound and gagged in an alley. Another member named Matt "Guitar" Murphy joins again at the advice of his wife, with whom he now runs a Mercedes-Benz dealership. Three members work at a radio station and quickly agree to join, and finally, Murphy Dunne joins after his boss at a call center gives him permission.
The newly-reformed band uses their old agent to book them a show. On the way to it, they are followed by Cabel and the Illinois state police, who are now looking for Elwood for stealing Cabel's wallet earlier, and believing that he has kidnapped Buster. While avoiding the police, Elwood interrupts a militia group meeting, unintentionally destroying their boat full of explosives they planned to use.
The band arrives at the show to find they have been mistakenly booked as a Bluegrass band, but perform anyway. Afterwards, they evade capture by the police, but they catch up with them at a tent revival where Reverend Cleophus James is preaching. Before Cabel can arrest them, he has an epiphany brought on by Reverend Cleophus that he should join the band instead of being a police officer. The band evades capture once more, now with Cabel joining them, who the police believe is brainwashed.
The band continues on to their next booking, an audition for a Battle of the Bands put on by Queen Mousette who Mack informs is allegedly a 130-year-old voodoo witch. Queen Mousette requests the band play something Caribbean; when Elwood explains they don't play Caribbean music, she casts a spell on them to play anyway. She accepts the band into the battle, however, Elwood, Mack, and Cabel are turned into statues.
At the show, Queen Mousette undoes the spell to allow the Blues Brothers to play against the Louisiana Gator Boys, a supergroup of blues musicians who win the battle. After the battle, the show is interru