Blue Streak is a 1999 American buddy cop action comedy film directed by Les Mayfield. Inspired by the 1965 film The Big Job, the film stars Martin Lawrence, Luke Wilson, Dave Chappelle, Peter Greene, Nicole Ari Parker and William Forsythe. Lawrence plays Miles, a jewel thief who tries to retrieve a diamond he left at a police station, whereupon he disguises himself as a detective and gets paired with a real policeman to investigate burglaries. The film was shot on location in California. The prime shooting spot was Sony Pictures Studios, which is located in Culver City, California.
Blue Streak was released theatrically by Columbia Pictures on September 17, 1999 and opened as the number one movie in North America. Despite receiving mixed reviews from critics, it went on to gross nearly $120 million at the worldwide box office against a $36 million budget. The film's soundtrack album, featuring a number of popular urban/hip-hop artists, was certified platinum.


== Plot ==
Jewel thief Miles Logan participates in a $17 million diamond heist in LA with his crew: his right hand and best friend Eddie, getaway driver Tulley, and Deacon, a newly acquired member of the group. Deacon turns on them, killing Eddie by shooting him off of a tall building and causing him to fall onto a police car, before attempting to take the stone from Miles. As the police arrive, he hides the diamond in the ducts of a building under construction; as Deacon flees, Miles is arrested.
Released from prison two years later, Miles attempts to reunite with his girlfriend. She breaks it off as he lied about being a criminal, which prompts him to retrieve the diamond. Miles discovers the building where he hid the diamond is now an LAPD police station and goes inside. He realizes the diamond is hidden in the ducts of what is now the Robbery/Homicide detective bureau, which requires a key card to access.
Miles returns disguised as a pizza deliveryman, steals an access card and visits his forger Uncle Lou. The fake badge and transfer papers allow him to pose as newly-transferred police detective Malone. While trying to access the ducts, Miles inadvertently foils a prisoner escape so is teamed up with newly-appointed Detective Carlson.
Miles' planned quick in and out mission to retrieve the diamond ends up becoming a prolonged endeavor as he gets sent out on calls. Miles' knowledge on criminal activity and ability to foil crimes makes him quite popular among his "peers,” even getting promoted to detective in charge of the Robbery/Homicide division. 
When Miles and Carlson are first sent on a burglary call, he quickly solves it as fraud perpetrated by the owner. On the ride back, they stumble upon an armed robbery being committed by Tulley. Miles intervenes, arresting him before he's shot, but Tulley demands $50,000 to keep quiet about who Miles really is. 
Miles again attempts to locate the diamond, but is interrupted by Carlson, who has discovered he is not who he claims to be. Convincing him that he is from Internal Affairs, Miles tries to get back to searching for the diamond, but they are sent out on another call. While out, they capture a truckload of heroin. 
Afterwards, Miles finds the diamond in the evidence locker but accidentally drops it into the load of seized heroin. The FBI demands the heroin for testing. In panic, Miles suggests the FBI and his unit use it as bait in a sting. He arranges to be with the heroin in the delivery truck, but is soon joined by Tulley,whom he had set free from holding, and Deacon; during the drug deal, Deacon exposes Miles as a cop to the drug runners. While Miles and Tulley attempt to distract them, the police and FBI raid the deal. Deacon escapes with the diamond in an armored truck and the police and FBI follow as he approaches the border to Mexico. The US authorities are forced to halt their pursuit at the border, but Miles steals a patrol car and chases Deacon. 
Miles forces Deacon to wreck the truck and offers him a deal: