The Bone Collector is a 1999 American crime thriller film directed by Phillip Noyce and starring Denzel Washington and Angelina Jolie. The film is based on the 1997 crime novel of the same name written by Jeffery Deaver, and focuses the quadriplegic homicide detective and a newly-recruited patrol officer investigating the series of murders in New York City.


== Plot ==
In 1998 New York City, quadriplegic forensics expert Lincoln Rhyme is bed-bound after an accident that left him paralyzed from the neck down. Amelia Donaghy, a newly recruited patrol officer, discovers a mutilated corpse buried at a Civil War-era railroad bed. Rhyme is directing her through a free video/audio feed sent from Amelia to him in his bedroom. Due to clue-like objects found at the crime scene, Rhyme concludes that the scene was staged and subsequently teams up with an initially hesitant Amelia, impressed by her natural forensic instincts.
The killer poses as a taxi driver and, before Rhyme and Amelia met, abducts married couple Alan and Lindsay Rubin. Alan is the body discovered by Amelia at the railroad station, while Lindsay is revealed to be alive and tied up at a steam junction. Using the clues found at the railroad bed, including a torn piece of scrap paper, Rhyme successfully tracks the whereabouts of Lindsay. The detectives and Amelia arrive just after she is scalded to death by an open steam pipe. Amelia finds a piece of Lindsay's bone by her body and another scrap of paper. Rhyme instructs Amelia to sever Lindsay's hands in order to obtain evidence, but she refuses and storms off.
The killer abducts an NYU student, who is taken to a derelict slaughterhouse, tied to a pole, and left with an open wound that attracts nearby rats. Amelia and Rhyme, again using the clues left by the killer at the scene of the previous murder, find the victim's body mutilated by rats. Amelia finds another scrap of paper and a piece of bone. The pressure of the tense investigation and bureaucratic challenges to Amelia and Rhyme's involvement in the case begin to have serious impacts on Rhyme's health and stability. Thelma, Rhyme's carer and nurse, reveals to Amelia his plans to euthanize himself out of fear of seizures that could leave him in a vegetative state.
After piecing together the message the killer was sending using the paper scraps, Amelia and Rhyme are led to an old crime novel called The Bone Collector, which details crimes the killer is replicating. The fictional outline leads them to the location of the next victims, a grandfather and granddaughter who have been tied to a pier during a rise in tide. The paramedics successfully resuscitate the young girl, but the grandfather dies. At the scene, Amelia finds another piece of bone, part of an old police badge, and a subway map. These clues together with the asbestos left by the killer at the scene of Lindsay's death lead Amelia to an abandoned subway station, where numbers on the side of a carriage have been tampered with to spell out Rhyme's police badge number.
The killer arrives at Rhyme's house and kills both Thelma and Police Captain Howard Cheney. The killer is revealed to be Richard Thompson, the medical technician in charge of Rhyme's medical equipment. Richard's real name is Marcus Andrews, a former forensics expert convicted after Rhyme wrote an article exposing him for planting evidence that resulted in the wrongful imprisonment of six innocent people, one of whom hanged himself. Maintaining his judgment as correct, Marcus blames Rhyme for his imprisonment and the abuse he endured during incarceration, and has schemed to humiliate Rhyme by testing his abilities in a game of wits before killing him. Rhyme manages to crush Marcus' hand in his medical bed, resulting in a struggle in which he manages to harm Marcus severely by biting his neck. Unable to move, Rhyme is about to be stabbed to death when Amelia arrives and shoots Marcus dead.
The following Christmas, Rhyme, having abandoned his plans 