Bowfinger is a 1999 American satirical buddy comedy film directed by Frank Oz. The film depicts a down-and-out filmmaker in Hollywood attempting to make a film on a small budget with a star who does not know that he is in the movie. It was written by Steve Martin, who also stars alongside Eddie Murphy in two roles, and Heather Graham as an ambitious would-be starlet.
Bowfinger was released in the United States on August 13, 1999, to positive reviews, and grossed $98 million. The film is considered by many as one of Eddie Murphy's best and most underappreciated films.


== Plot ==
B movie film producer Bobby Bowfinger has been saving up to direct a movie since he was ten years old: he now has $2,184 to pay for production costs. He has a script ("Chubby Rain") penned by an accountant, Afrim, and a camera operator, Dave, who has access to studio equipment through his job as a gofer. Bowfinger then lines up several actors who are hungry for work, along with a crowd of illegal Mexican immigrants as his camera crew; the only other thing he needs is a studio deal in order to distribute his masterwork.
He extracts a promise from high-ranking Universal Pictures executive Jerry Renfro that Universal will distribute the film if it includes currently hot action star Kit Ramsey. Ramsey – a pompous, neurotic, and paranoid actor – refuses, so Bowfinger concocts a plan to covertly film all of Ramsey's scenes without his knowledge. The actors, told that Ramsey is method acting and will not be interacting with them outside of their scenes, walk up to Ramsey in public and recite their lines while hidden cameras catch Ramsey's confused reactions.
The plan goes well at first: Ramsey (who is a member of a Scientology-like organization called MindHead) swallows the movie's alien invasion premise and believes he is genuinely being stalked by aliens, resulting in an exceptionally genuine and intense performance. However, the strain on his already-precarious mental state leads him to go into hiding in order to maintain his sanity, stalling the film's production.
Bowfinger resorts to hiring a Ramsey lookalike named Jiff. Jiff is unassuming, amiable, and so naïve that Bowfinger is able to persuade him to run across a busy freeway for a scene by assuring him the speeding cars are all being driven by "stunt drivers". During a chat with the other cast members, Jiff reveals that he is Kit's twin brother, explaining the likeness. Using this new knowledge, Bowfinger tasks Jiff with finding out Kit's location and plans so they can ambush him and film the final scene.
Only one scene remains to be shot: the finale set at the Griffith Observatory. Though otherwise pleased with Kit's unscripted dialogue, Bowfinger considers his character's final line "Gotcha, suckas!" to be the key moment of the film. Bowfinger directs Daisy, the female lead, to guide Kit through the scene under the guise of showing him how to get rid of the "aliens". During the filming, Kit becomes terrified and struggles to deliver the final line. At this point, Kit's MindHead mentor, Terry Stricter, who has discovered evidence that Kit's "aliens" may not be just in his head, shows up at the observatory and shuts down production.
Bowfinger's camera crew show him B-roll footage of Kit Ramsey they were filming off-set, just in case they caught anything they could use. The footage shows Kit donning a paper bag over his head and exposing himself to the Laker Girl Cheerleading Squad, something Terry Stricter previously dissuaded him from doing. Bowfinger blackmails Stricter and the MindHead leadership with the footage, threatening to release it and ruin Ramsey's career (which would impact MindHead's finances as Ramsey is a major donor). Stricter acquiesces and Bowfinger finishes the film with Kit's cooperation, and the cast and crew finally get to attend the film's premiere where they are awed by the result. Following the apparent success of the film, Bowfinger receives an offer to direct a martial ar