Boxing Helena is a 1993 American Avant-garde thriller film directed by Jennifer Lynch and starring Sherilyn Fenn, Julian Sands, and Bill Paxton. Before its release, the film's production was hampered by legal battles with Madonna and Kim Basinger, who both backed out of playing Helena. The film debuted at the Sundance Film Festival in January 1993, where it was received poorly. After receiving an NC-17 rating from the MPAA, the film was given an R rating on appeal and released in the United States in September 1993. It was a critical and financial failure.


== Plot ==
Nick Cavanaugh, an Atlanta surgeon, begins moving into his recently deceased mother's lavish home with his girlfriend, Anne. However, he remains fixated on Helena—a beautiful but shrewish woman with whom he had one intimate experience— although she harbors disdain for him. Nick and Anne host a housewarming party and Nick invites Helena, who leaves early with a friend and co-worker of Nick's, much to his shock. Anne leaves Nick after realizing his obsession with Helena. Helena forgets her address book at Nick's house and the next day reluctantly agrees to return to retrieve it. After Helena suffers a high-grade tibial fracture in a hit-and-run motor vehicle collision as she attempts to leave on foot, Nick kidnaps her and covertly provides her with illicit medical care in the confines of his home. He goes to the extreme of amputating both her legs above the knee and torturing her in an attempt to control her. Later, following her attempt to choke him, Nick goes even further by amputating her arms above the elbow.
Despite Helena being the victim of Nick's kidnapping and mutilation, she dominates the dialogue with constant ridicule of his shortcomings and continues rejecting his affections despite being dependent on him for care. She begrudgingly becomes calmer and more accepting of Nick until the unexpected arrival of her boyfriend Ray, who has been searching for the missing Helena, which escalates into a violent altercation. However, at the end of the film, it is revealed that holding Helena against her will and dismembering her were vivid dreams that Nick had while waiting at the hospital for the still intact Helena to recover from surgery. In reality, he had sought proper medical help for her after the accident.


== Cast ==
Sherilyn Fenn as Helena
Julian Sands as Nick Cavanaugh
Bill Paxton as Ray O'Malley
Kurtwood Smith as Alan Palmer
Art Garfunkel as Lawrence Augustine
Betsy Clark as Anne Garrett
Nicolette Scorsese as Fantasy Lover/Nurse
Meg Register as Marion Cavanaugh
Bryan Smith as Russell
Marla Levine as Patricia
Kim Lentz as Nurse Diane
Lloyd T. Williams as Sam the Clerk


== Production ==
Producer Philippe Caland came up with the idea, but wanted a woman to write it, and so approached Lynch after she gave a poetry reading. At first, Lynch declined to get involved, reportedly telling him "Well, that sounds kind of terrible." But Caland was eventually able to convince her to work on it. In writing, Lynch was inspired by some elements from her own childhood, telling Vice that being born with club feet, and her grandmother owning a Venus de Milo replica, influenced her insight into the characters:

It always struck me the way people looked at the Venus. They didn't see her as broken, they saw her as beautiful. And it really made a huge impact on me. I thought I was broken and that maybe someday someone would find me beautiful. So this idea of a damaged boy who was in an obsessive situation who would try to recreate from his own view the one thing that didn't hit him or abandon him was this armless, beautiful woman. And therefore in a dream recreate this obsessive thing where we take from one another until we are the size and shape that we think the other person should be for us.
Madonna was slated to play Helena, but shortly before filming was to begin in January 1991 she dropped out, halting the production. The next month, in an attempt to salvage the film,