Bad Boys for Life is a 2020 American buddy cop action comedy film directed by Adil & Bilall. It is the sequel to Bad Boys II (2003) and the third installment in the Bad Boys franchise. Martin Lawrence, Will Smith, Theresa Randle and Joe Pantoliano reprise their roles in the film and are joined by Vanessa Hudgens, Alexander Ludwig, Paola Núñez, Charles Melton, Kate del Castillo and Nicky Jam. The film was produced by Smith, Jerry Bruckheimer, and Doug Belgrad, with a screenplay written by Chris Bremner, Peter Craig and Joe Carnahan. In Bad Boys for Life, Miami detectives Mike Lowrey and Marcus Burnett investigate a string of murders tied to Lowrey's troubled past.
A third Bad Boys film was contemplated following the release of the second film in 2003, with Michael Bay stating he would be interested in returning to direct, but budgetary constraints led to stalled efforts. Over the years, a variety of writers and directors were attached as the film went through multiple attempts to enter production. The project was eventually finalized and green-lit in October 2018, and filming began the following year, lasting from January to June 2019. Principal photography took place in Atlanta, Miami, and Mexico City.
Bad Boys for Life was theatrically released in the United States on January 17, 2020, by Sony Pictures Releasing under the Columbia Pictures label. The film was generally well received by critics and grossed $426.5 million worldwide, becoming the third-highest-grossing January release of all time. It was also the fourth-highest-grossing film of 2020 and the highest-grossing film in the franchise. A sequel, Bad Boys: Ride or Die, is scheduled to be released on June 7, 2024.


== Plot ==
17 years after Johnny Tapia was taken down by Miami PD Detectives Mike Lowrey and Marcus Burnett, Isabel Aretas, widow of cartel kingpin Benito, escapes from a Mexican prison with the aid of her son Armando. Isabel sends Armando to Miami, tasking him with recovering a substantial stash of money his father Benito had hidden, as well as assassinating the people responsible for his father's arrest and eventual death in prison. Isabel also demands that Armando kill Mike last.
In Miami, Mike accompanies Marcus to the birth of his first grandson. Desiring to spend more time with his family, Marcus tells Mike he intends to retire, to Mike's chagrin. During a party celebrating Marcus's grandson, Mike is shot by Armando and left in a coma for months. Chastised by Isabel for targeting Mike first, Armando continues to assassinate other targets on his list during Mike's convalescence.
Following Mike's recovery, he is determined to seek revenge and unsuccessfully attempts to recruit the now-retired Marcus, causing a fall out between them. Mike violently obtains the identity of arms dealer Booker Grassie from an informant. Realizing that Mike will not heed orders to stay away from the investigation, Captain Howard reluctantly allows him to work with the tech-driven team in charge, Advanced Miami Metro Operations (AMMO), led by Mike's ex-girlfriend Rita. While the team surveils Grassie at an arms deal, Mike intervenes after determining the buyers intend to kill Grassie, but he fails to save him. Later, Marcus is called by Carver Remy, an old informant who believes the assassin is after him. Marcus and Mike travel to Carver, but he is killed as they arrive. Armando escapes after a fistfight with Mike.
Captain Howard later reveals his intentions to retire as well, offering advice to Mike that he needs to find a path forward in life. He is abruptly assassinated by Armando moments later. The captain's death pulls Marcus out of retirement, but he convinces Mike to work as a team with AMMO. They track down Grassie's accountant, who leads them to Lorenzo "Zway-Lo" Rodriguez. They infiltrate Zway-Lo's birthday party leading to a destructive car chase. Armando arrives in a helicopter to rescue Zway-Lo but kills him when he blocks Armando's ability to shoot the pursuing M