Braddock: Missing in Action III  is a 1988 American action adventure film, and a sequel to Missing in Action, following the second film, Missing in Action 2: The Beginning, which was a prequel. It is the third and final installment in the Missing in Action film series. The film stars Chuck Norris, who co-wrote the screenplay with James Bruner. The film was directed by Norris' brother, Aaron Norris.


== Plot ==
Colonel James Braddock, Vietnam War veteran, had believed his Asian wife Lin Tan Cang to be dead since the war ended in 1975, but he hears from a missionary, Reverend Polanski, that Lin is not only alive, but that she and Braddock have a 12-year-old son named Van Tan Cang.
At first, Braddock does not believe it, but when cold-blooded CIA boss Littlejohn tells Braddock to disregard that information, that is when Braddock knows it is true. Braddock heads back into Vietnam through parachute deployment and with the help of an Australian C-47 pilot. After parachute descent, Braddock outruns Vietnamese Navy patrol boats with a jet-powered speedboat.
Reverend Polanski leads Braddock to Lin and Van. Attempting to flee the country, Braddock, Lin and Van are captured by the soldiers of the sadistic Vietnamese General Quoc. Quoc kills Lin on the spot, and has his soldiers take Braddock and Van to a compound to be tortured.
Later, Braddock overpowers his guards, frees Van, and heads for the mission that is run by Polanski. Quoc anticipates the move and takes all the mission children into captivity, along with Van and Polanski, and Braddock sets out to free them all from Quoc by going to his weapons cache that he had hidden a few days prior. He equips himself with a modified Heckler & Koch G3 battle rifle with an underslung 6-shot rotary grenade launcher and attachments including a spring-loaded bayonet. He raids the camp killing the guards and loading up one of the trucks with all the children including his son, Van and the Reverend. Soon after escaping they are followed and attacked by a Vietnamese-captured US UH-1 Huey.
After they escape Braddock takes the children on foot and find a Vietnamese airstrip. Braddock silently takes out the guards and hijacks a C-47 Dakota plane. The plane is then attacked by Vietnamese guards causing fuel to leak out of the plane, eventually crashing just outside the Cambodian-Thailand border. Braddock then raids the border station where Thai and US troops are watching on the other side, cheering Braddock on. When Braddock kills all the opposing troops, more pour in. Braddock is injured by a grenade. When General Quoc then flies in on a Vietnamese Mil-24 Hind gunship thinking he has Braddock all to himself, two US helicopters on the side of the Thai border confront Quoc's gunship. Taunting each other to cross, Braddock and his son Van fire at Quoc's ship, hitting the pilot. The gunship crashes, killing Quoc. The US troops pour over the border and bridge and help the wounded Braddock and the children.


== Cast ==


== Production ==


=== Development ===
Norris had a long-term deal with Cannon Films. They were in financial trouble and wanted a new Missing in Action film. Norris says that he was not interested in doing a third film until his brother Aaron told him about the Amerasian children: "In Vietnam there are 15,000 Amerasian children who are trapped there, considered outcasts, living a strictly non-existent life. So I started reading up on the subject and got emotionally involved".
Norris was particularly affected by a segment he saw on the ABC TV show 20/20: "An American soldier fell in love over there in Vietnam, but the Army wouldn't let him marry her. He went back and tried to get her over because he knew she was pregnant. Finally, she had the baby over there and died. So the next 14 years he spent trying to locate (the child) and get him out of the country. But finally he did it, and there were tears and everything then. It really hit you". Norris wrote the script with James Bruner.


=== F