The Brady Bunch Movie is a 1995 American comedy film that parodies the 1969–1974 television series The Brady Bunch. The film was directed by Betty Thomas, with a screenplay by Laurice Elehwany, Rick Copp, and Bonnie and Terry Turner, and stars Shelley Long, Gary Cole, and Michael McKean. It also features cameos from Davy Jones, Micky Dolenz, Peter Tork, RuPaul, and some of the original cast of The Brady Bunch in new roles. 
The film (likewise with the connected sequels) is an alternate retroactive continuity of the Brady Bunch storyline and lore, based on the kitschy-camp parody musical "Live Brady Bunch" tour in the early 1990s. The film places the original sitcom characters, with their 1970s fashion sense and sitcom family morality, in a contemporary 1990s setting. Mike Brady works as a successful architect in Los Angeles. Due to failure to pay property tax, his family's home is at risk for repossession. Mike has to contend with his conman neighbor Larry Dittmeyer, who tries to sabotage the Bradys' effort to save their home. The film features humorous side plots, based around the culture clash between the Bradys' conservative lifestyle and their more liberal surroundings.
The Brady Bunch Movie was released in the United States on February 17, 1995, and grossed $54 million. A sequel titled A Very Brady Sequel was released on August 23, 1996, and a television film titled The Brady Bunch in the White House was aired on November 29, 2002.


== Plot ==
Larry Dittmeyer, an unscrupulous real estate developer, convinces all the families in his neighborhood — except for the Brady family — to sell their property as part of a plan to turn the area into a shopping mall.
The Bradys have their own problems. Jan is jealous of her elder, popular sister Marcia. Cindy is tattling about everything she hears. Greg is dreaming of becoming a singer, but sings folk songs more appropriate to the 1970s. Peter is beginning puberty with his voice starting to break. He is exposed to numerous titillations through sex education and his very attractive teacher Miss Linley. He is also trying to win the affection of the girl he loves, Holly, but thinks his shy and awkward personality prevents him from doing so. Bobby is excited about his new role as hall monitor at school.
Cindy gives Mike and Carol a tax delinquency notice (which was mistakenly delivered to the Dittmeyers) stating that they face foreclosure on their house if they do not pay $20,000 in back taxes. The two initially ignore the crisis, but when Mike's architectural design (which is exactly the same as their house) is turned down by two potential clients, he tells Carol that they may have to sell the house.
Cindy overhears this and tells her siblings. They look for work to raise money to save the house, but their earnings are nowhere near enough to reach the required sum. Mike sells a Japanese company on one of his dated designs, thereby securing the money, only for Larry to sabotage it by claiming that Mike's last building collapsed.
On the night before the Bradys have to move out, Marcia suggests that they enter a "Search for the Stars" contest, the prize of which is $20,000. Jan, having originally suggested this and been rejected, runs away from home. Cindy sees her leave and tattles, and the whole family goes on a search for her. They use their car's citizens' band radio, and their transmission is heard by Schultzy, a long-haul trucker who picks up Jan and convinces her to return home.
The next day, the children join the "Search for the Stars" contest. Peter finally builds the confidence to stand up to Eric Dittmeyer, Peter's tormentor and Holly's boyfriend. This earns him a kiss from Holly, which gives him a deep masculine voice. The children's dated performance receives a poor audience response compared to the more modern performances of other bands. However, the judges — Davy Jones, Micky Dolenz, and Peter Tork of The Monkees — vote for them, and they win the contest as a result. The ta