In fluid dynamics and nautical terminology, a breaking wave or breaker is a wave with enough energy to "break" at its peak, reaching a critical level at which linear energy transforms into wave turbulence energy with a distinct forward curve.  At this point, simple physical models that describe wave dynamics often become invalid, particularly those that assume linear behaviour.
The most generally familiar sort of breaking wave is the breaking of water surface waves on a coastline. Wave breaking generally occurs where the amplitude reaches the point that the crest of the wave actually overturns. Certain other effects in fluid dynamics have also been termed "breaking waves", partly by analogy with water surface waves. In meteorology, atmospheric gravity waves are said to break when the wave produces regions where the potential temperature decreases with height, leading to energy dissipation through convective instability; likewise, Rossby waves are said to break when the potential vorticity gradient is overturned. Wave breaking also occurs in plasmas, when the particle velocities exceed the wave's phase speed. Another application in plasma physics is plasma expansion into a vacuum, in which the process of wave breaking and the subsequent development of a fast ion peak is described by the Sack-Schamel equation.
A reef or spot of shallow water such as a shoal against which waves break may also be known as a breaker.


== Types ==

Breaking of water surface waves may occur anywhere that the amplitude is sufficient, including in mid-ocean.  However, it is particularly common on beaches because wave heights are amplified in the region of shallower water (because the group velocity is lower there).  See also waves and shallow water.
There are four basic types of breaking water waves. They are spilling, plunging, collapsing, and surging.


=== Spilling breakers ===
When the ocean  floor has a gradual slope, the wave will steepen until the crest becomes unstable, resulting in turbulent whitewater spilling down the face of the wave.  This continues as the wave approaches the shore, and the wave's energy is slowly dissipated in the whitewater.  Because of this, spilling waves break for a longer time than other waves, and create a relatively gentle wave.  Onshore wind conditions make spillers more likely.


=== Plunging breakers ===
A plunging wave occurs when  the ocean floor is steep or has sudden depth changes, such as from a reef or sandbar.  The crest of the wave becomes much steeper than a spilling wave, becomes vertical, then curls over and drops onto the trough of the wave, releasing most of its energy at once in a relatively violent impact.   A plunging wave breaks with more energy than a significantly larger spilling wave.  The wave can trap and compress the air under the lip, which creates the "crashing" sound associated with waves.  With large waves, this crash can be felt by beachgoers on land.  Offshore wind conditions can make plungers more likely.
If a plunging wave is not parallel to the beach (or the ocean floor), the section of the wave which reaches shallow water will break first, and the breaking section (or curl) will move laterally across the face of the wave as the wave continues.  This is the "tube" that is so highly sought after by surfers (also called a "barrel", a "pit", and "the greenroom", among other terms).  The surfer tries to stay near or under the crashing lip, often trying to stay as "deep" in the tube as possible while still being able to shoot forward and exit the barrel before it closes.   A plunging wave that is parallel to the beach can break along its whole length at once, rendering it unrideable and dangerous.  Surfers refer to these waves as "closed out".


=== Collapsing ===
Collapsing waves are a cross between plunging and surging, in which the crest never fully breaks, yet the bottom face of the wave gets steeper and collapses, resulting in foam.


=== Surging ===
Surging breakers originate fr