Brief Encounter is a 1945 British romantic drama film directed by David Lean from a screenplay by Noël Coward, based on his 1936 one-act play Still Life.
Starring Celia Johnson, Trevor Howard, Stanley Holloway, and Joyce Carey, the film follows a passionate extramarital relationship in England shortly before World War II. The protagonist is Laura, a married woman with children, whose conventional life becomes increasingly complicated after a chance meeting at a railway station with a married stranger with whom she subsequently falls in love.
The film premiered in London on 13 November 1945. It went to general release on 25 November, to widespread critical acclaim. It received three nominations at the 19th Academy Awards, Best Director, Best Actress (for Johnson), and Best Adapted Screenplay.
Many critics, historians, and scholars cite the film as one of the greatest of all time. In 1999, the British Film Institute ranked it as the second-greatest British film of all time. In 2017, a Time Out poll of 150 actors, directors, writers, producers, and critics ranked it the 12th-best British film ever.


== Plot ==
Laura Jesson, a respectable middle-class Englishwoman in an affectionate but rather dull marriage, tells her story while sitting at home with her husband, imagining that she is confessing to him.
Like many women of her class at the time, Laura visits a nearby town every week for shopping and a matinée film. Returning from one such excursion to Milford, and waiting in the railway station's refreshment room, she is helped by another passenger who removes a piece of grit from her eye. The man is Alec Harvey, an idealistic general practitioner, who also works on Thursdays as a consultant at the local hospital. Both are married with children (although Alec's wife Madeleine and their two sons are unseen).

The two accidentally meet again the next week outside Boots the Chemist, and then on a third meeting share a table at lunch. Then, both having free time, they go to an afternoon performance at the Palladium Cinema. They are soon troubled to find their innocent and casual relationship developing into something deeper, approaching infidelity.
They meet openly until they run into friends of Laura's one day and the need to deceive others arises. The second lie comes more easily when needed. They eventually go to a flat belonging to Stephen, a friend of Alec's and a fellow doctor, but before they can make love they are interrupted by Stephen's unexpected and judgmental return. Humiliated and ashamed, Laura runs down the back stairs and into the street. She walks and walks, and sits on a bench for hours, smoking, until a concerned policeman encourages her to get out of the cold. She arrives at the station just in time for the last train home.
The recent turn of events makes the couple realise that an affair or a future together is impossible. Understanding the temptation and not wishing to hurt their families, they agree to part. Alec has been offered a job in Johannesburg, South Africa, where his brother lives.
Their final meeting occurs in the railway station refreshment room, now seen for a second time with the poignant perspective of their story. As they await a final parting, Dolly Messiter, a talkative acquaintance of Laura's, invites herself to join them and begins chattering away, oblivious to the couple's misery.
As they realise that they have lost their chance for a final goodbye, Alec's train arrives. With Dolly still chattering, Alec departs without the passionate farewell for which they both long. After shaking Dolly's hand, he discreetly squeezes Laura on the shoulder and leaves. Laura waits for a moment, anxiously hoping that Alec will walk back into the refreshment room, but he does not. As the train is heard pulling away, Laura is galvanised by emotion, and, hearing an approaching express train, dashes out to the platform. The train's lights flash across her face as she conquers a suicidal impulse. She then returns 