Brighton Beach Memoirs is a semi-autobiographical play by Neil Simon. 
The play is a coming-of-age comedy focused on the main character of Eugene Morris Jerome, a Jewish teenager from a Polish immigrant family. It is set in September 1937 in the Brighton Beach section of Brooklyn, New York during The Great Depression. According to Simon, the play tells its story "through the eyes of a 15-year-old boy who is writing his memoirs—which is what I did when I was 15".
Brighton Beach Memoirs premiered in December 1982. In 1983, it received the New York Drama Critics' Circle Award for Best Play and was nominated for the Drama Desk Award for Outstanding New Play. Brighton Beach Memoirs is the first play in what is known as Simon's Eugene trilogy, and was followed by Biloxi Blues (1984) and Broadway Bound (1986). The play was adapted into a film of the same name in 1986.


== Productions ==
Brighton Beach Memoirs had a pre-Broadway engagement at the Ahmanson Theatre in Los Angeles on December 10, 1982, and following an additional pre-Broadway engagement at the Curran Theatre in San Francisco, the play premiered on Broadway at the Alvin Theatre on March 27, 1983 and transferred to the 46th Street Theatre, where it closed on May 11, 1986 after 1,299 performances and seven previews. Directed by Gene Saks, the cast featured Matthew Broderick (Eugene Jerome), Elizabeth Franz (Kate Jerome), Peter Michael Goetz (Jack Jerome), Mandy Ingber (Laurie Morton), Željko Ivanek (Stanley Jerome), Jodi Thelen (Nora Morton) and Joyce Van Patten (Blanche Morton).  Van Patten joined the cast after Piper Laurie was let go during rehearsals.  Scenic design was by David Mitchell, Costumes were by Patricia Zipprodt and lighting was by Tharon Musser. 
Cast replacements included Fisher Stevens, Doug McKeon, Jon Cryer, Robert Sean Leonard, and Jonathan Silverman as Eugene and Elizabeth Perkins, Josh Hamilton, Stanley Tucci, Anita Gillette, Patrick Breen, Dick Latessa and Verna Bloom in other roles. Brighton Beach Memoirs is the last non-musical play to run over 1,000 consecutive performances on Broadway.

Broadway revival
A revival opened on Broadway on October 25, 2009 at the Nederlander Theatre. Directed by David Cromer, the cast featured Laurie Metcalf as Kate Jerome and Dennis Boutsikaris as Jack Jerome, with Santino Fontana as Stanley Jerome, Jessica Hecht as Blanche, Gracie Bea Lawrence as Laurie, Noah Robbins as Eugene and Alexandra Socha as Nora.
The production was planned to run in repertory with Broadway Bound, which was to feature the same cast with the exception of Josh Grisetti, who was to assume the role of the "older" Eugene (played by Noah Robbins in the earlier play) and Allan Miller in the role of Ben. The two plays were produced and promoted as "The Neil Simon Plays". Despite generally positive reviews from New York critics, Brighton Beach Memoirs closed on November 1, 2009 after nine performances and 25 previews due to weak ticket sales.  Subsequently, the planned production of Broadway Bound was cancelled.


== Plot overview ==
The Jerome family includes Eugene's older brother Stanley; his parents Kate and Jack; Kate's sister Blanche; and Blanche's two daughters, Nora and Laurie, who came to live at Kate and Jack's home following the death of Blanche's husband. 
The play begins outside the Jeromes' home. Fourteen-year-old Eugene is playing baseball by himself, imagining that he is playing in the World Series. After Kate yells at Eugene to stop playing, he enters the house. Eugene informs the audience that when he grows up, he wants to be a professional baseball player or a writer. Later, he mentions that he is sexually attracted to his cousin Nora and that his cousin Laurie has a health condition that leads others in the family to baby her.
Sixteen-year-old Nora enters the house in a state of excitement. She has been given the opportunity to audition for a part as a dancer in a Broadway show, and she has been told by the producer that she will