Bring It On is a 2000 American teen comedy film directed by Peyton Reed (in his theatrical film directing debut) and written by Jessica Bendinger. The film stars Kirsten Dunst, Eliza Dushku, Jesse Bradford and Gabrielle Union. The plot of the film centers around two high school cheerleading teams' preparation for a national competition.
Bring It On was released in theaters in North America on August 25, 2000, and became a box office success. The film opened at the number 1 spot in North American theaters and remained in the position for two consecutive weeks, earning a worldwide gross of approximately $90 million. The film received generally positive reviews and has become a cult classic.
It was the first of the Bring It On film series and was followed by six direct-to-video sequels, none of which contains any of the original cast members: Bring It On Again (2004), which shared producers with the original, Bring It On: All or Nothing (2006), Bring It On: In It to Win It (2007), Bring It On: Fight to the Finish (2009), Bring It On: Worldwide Cheersmack (2017), and the TV film, Bring It On: Cheer or Die (2022).


== Plot ==
Cheerleader Torrance Shipman is a senior at Rancho Carne High School in San Diego. Her boyfriend, Aaron, is at college at Cal State Dominguez Hills, and her cheerleading squad, the Toros, is aiming for a sixth consecutive national title. Torrance is elected the next team captain, replacing her highly successful predecessor, "Big Red" after she graduates. In her first practice as captain, teammate Carver is injured and forced to sit the rest of the season out. Torrance holds auditions for a replacement and gains Missy Pantone, a skilled gymnast who transferred from Los Angeles with her brother, Cliff.
While watching the Toros practice, Missy accuses them of plagiarizing their cheers, which Torrance vehemently denies. Missy takes her to L.A. to watch the East Compton Clovers, a squad Missy's previous high school frequently competed against, who perform an identical routine. Isis, the Clovers captain, confronts the two revealing Big Red videotaped the Clovers' routines and stole them for the Toros. Torrance worries that she is cursed with bad luck after she dropped the Spirit Stick, an object that is never supposed to touch the ground, during a dare at cheer camp over the summer. The Clovers vow to beat the Toros in the national competition, which they could not afford to attend in previous years, and prove that they are better cheerleaders. Meanwhile, Torrance and Cliff begin to get to know each other and a mutual attraction grows between them as Aaron becomes more distant.
After Torrance informs the Toros about the routines, the team votes in favor of using the current routine to win. Torrance agrees, feeling there is no time to learn a new routine, while Missy reluctantly goes along with it. At the Toros' next home game, Isis and her teammates perform the Toros' routine in front of the whole school, humiliating them. After advice from Aaron, Torrance recruits the team to raise money through a car wash and hire choreographer Sparky Polastri. Polastri puts the whole team on a diet and regularly belittles them, but the team learns the routine in time for competition. At Regionals, the team scheduled before the Toros performs Sparky's routine, embarrassing the team who perform the same routine with little choice. Torrance speaks to a competition official and learns their choreographer has provided the routine for six other teams. As the defending champions, the Toros are granted their place in nationals in Daytona Beach, Florida, but Torrance is warned that a new routine will be expected. Big Red chastises Torrance for her inability to be a leader, and says that if she made any mistake as a squad leader, it was not stealing cheers but rather announcing Torrance as her successor. Crushed by Big Red's words and her failure to lead the squad successfully, Torrance considers quitting.
Aaron recommends that Torrance s