The Broken Arrow murders, also known as the Broken Arrow killings or the Bever Family Massacre, took place on July 22, 2015, when five members of the Bever family were murdered in Broken Arrow, Oklahoma, United States.  It was the deadliest crime and mass murder in the city of Broken Arrow.
Daniel Bever (age 12) called 9-1-1, saving the lives of his sisters Autumn (2) and Crystal (13) by alerting authorities. Crystal, one of the two survivors, identified two of her older brothers, 18-year-old Robert and 16-year-old Michael, as the assailants. The brothers were subsequently arrested and charged with five counts of first-degree murder and one count of assault and battery with intent to murder. The perpetrators were sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole.


== Details ==
At around 11:30 p.m. on July 22, 2015 police were alerted to 709 Magnolia Court by a 9-1-1 phone call made by 12-year-old Daniel Bever, who stated his brother was attacking the family. Screaming, commotion, and a male voice were heard in the background before the line went dead. Dispatchers tracked the address by searching the number. After a failed attempt to contact the father, David Bever, they dispatched officers to the scene.
When police arrived, they saw blood around the porch of the house. They knocked on the door, heard a faint voice calling for help, and forced their way into the house, where they found 13-year-old Crystal Bever, bleeding from multiple stab wounds. After pulling her out from the house, the officers found Daniel Bever and four others, who were all dead. Two-year-old Autumn Bever was found alive and unharmed with Crystal inside the house. It was believed that one of the brothers responsible for the killings lured out the victims by pretending that he himself was under attack.
Crystal survived the killings but was critically injured from her wounds. She identified two of her brothers as the assailants, saying they lured her to a bedroom before slitting her throat and stabbing her in the stomach and arms. She underwent surgery at a nearby hospital and was listed as being in serious but stable condition. The surviving children were placed in state custody. 
The parents, as well as three children, were all found stabbed to death. Knives, hatchets, and other bladed weapons were found at the scene, along with protective gear. Law enforcement officials said that at least some of the weapons found were used in the killings.


== Victims ==
Five people were killed in the familicide, and one was injured. A medical examiner determined that the common cause of death was "multiple sharp force injuries". Autopsies revealed the victims died between the late hours of July 22 and the early hours of July 23. The victims were identified as:
Killed

David Bever, 54 (father; killed by at least 28 stab wounds to the torso, face, neck, and left arm and hand)
April Bever, 45 (mother; killed by blunt-force trauma and more than 48 wounds to the head, neck, torso, and arms and hands)
Daniel Bever, 12 (brother; killed by 21 stab wounds to the back, shoulder, and chest)
Christopher Bever, 10 (brother; killed by 21 stab wounds to the back, chest, shoulder, and lower leg)
Victoria Bever, 5 (sister; killed by 23 stab wounds to both sides of the neck, her chest, back, and upper arm)
Injured

Crystal Bever, 13 (sister; injured by a slit throat and stab wounds to the stomach and arms)


== Motives and backgrounds of the perpetrators ==

The killers were identified as Robert Davis Bever (born September 17, 1996) and Michael John Bever (born November 4, 1998).
Neighbors said the Bever parents homeschooled their children and kept them from interacting with neighbors or other children. The family's lifestyle was reported to be so inconspicuous that some neighbors found out the full names of the entire family for the first time when the medical examiner released them. Neighbors also reported strange and unsettling behavior by Robert and Michael.
Defense at