The Brother from Another Planet is a 1984 low-budget American science fiction film, written and directed by John Sayles. 
The film, starring Joe Morton as an escaped extraterrestrial slave trying to find a new life on Earth, is in the public domain. Morton's performance as The Brother was acclaimed, as he had no lines of dialogue and had to communicate through facial expressions and body language alone.


== Plot ==
A mute space alien crash-lands his ship on Ellis Island. Other than his three-toed feet, which he keeps covered, he resembles a black human man. Because of his torn clothing, he is also viewed as a homeless man. 
His extraterrestrial powers are shown in many encounters: When he lays his hand on a wall, he can hear the voices of those who once filled a building - he cannot speak, but he can listen with great sympathy. Misunderstanding the transactions in a mom-and-pop shop, he begins eating a head of lettuce and a tomato (he is a vegetarian); when the shopkeeper begins screaming at him in Korean, he magically opens the cash register and hands her money from it, but this leads her to call for the police outdoors. When pursued by a police officer down the street, he leaps to a high perch on the wall, and the officer cannot find him.
He manages to blend in with the people he encounters and engages in one-sided conversations with various denizens of New York City. In a memorable scene, he meets a card trickster on a train who accepts his silence and hesitance to select a card; the trickster narrates a fast funny story involving the face cards, then departs, showing the Brother that some New Yorkers are simply amicable and amusing without wanting anything in return.
He makes friends at Odell's friendly local bar in Harlem. Odell secures him housing with single mom Randy Sue Carter and her little son. Able to heal wounds and fix machines by hovering his hand over them, he repairs an arcade cabinet there and speeds up the workings of its video game, to the delight of patrons. This leads to local man Sam getting him a job as a handyman and technician at a video arcade. 
When he observes drug use and its negative effects in Harlem, he reveals another power: He temporarily removes one of his eyes and uses it like a video camera. In this way, he is able to find the man supplying the drug dealers in Harlem, and thereafter investigate them.
Two men in black, keen on the mute alien's whereabouts, begin to track him and interrogate the people he has encountered. They seek to return him to the planet from which he escaped.


== Cast ==


== Production ==


=== Writing ===
The premise for the film came about from a series of dreams Sayles had while making the film Lianna: the first involving alien car salesmen called Assholes from Outer Space, the second a film noir take on Bigfoot, and the third about an extraterrestrial who looks like a black man in Harlem, an idea which Sayles loved. Cherry-picking elements from the other two dreams, he wrote the first draft of the screenplay in a little under a week.
According to a Daily Variety (July 10, 1984) article, Sayles wrote it while waiting to secure funding for Matewan (1987), and decided to go ahead first with The Brother.


=== Financing ===
Sayles spent part of his MacArthur Fellows "genius" grant on the film, which cost $350,000 to produce.
Sayles also invested his own money acquired from cable sales of Return of the Secaucus 7, as well as writing fees for his work adapting The Clan of the Cave Bear and its sequel, The Valley of Horses.


=== Filming ===
The film was shot on location chiefly in Harlem, chiefly at night, with a predominantly black cast and crew, during four weeks in March of 1984.
Locations include:

Ellis Island, Jersey City, where the Brother first crash-lands in New York in the night darkness.
On the Hudson River near Lower Manhattan, where the Brother looks around in daylight and wonders which way to go.
At an underpass at West 125th Street and 12th Avenue.
At a