The Butcher's Wife is a 1991 American romantic comedy film directed by Terry Hughes and starring Demi Moore and Jeff Daniels.
The film concerns a clairvoyant woman (Moore) thinks that she's met her future husband, whom she has seen in her dreams, and who is a butcher in New York City. They marry and move to the city, where her powers tend to influence everyone she meets while working in the shop. Through her advice, she helps others and eventually finds the true man of her dreams in a psychiatrist (Daniels).
The Butcher's Wife was a critical and commercial failure, grossing only $9 million at the box office. According to her 2019 memoir Inside Out, Moore regretted starring in the film, saying she only did it to increase her fee after the success of Ghost.


== Plot ==
On the island of Ocracoke, off the coast of North Carolina island, a clairvoyant named Marina discovers a twin-tailed comet in the sky, a snow globe on shore, and a wedding band inside a fish, omens indicating she will soon find her perfect mate. After envisioning the man's smile in a dream, she assumes it belongs to Leo Lemke, a middle-aged New York City butcher visiting the island. Two days later, Leo returns to the city with his new bride, to the astonishment of his customer, Robyn Graves. After Marina recounts their whirlwind romance, Robyn wonders if she will ever be as certain about her boyfriend, psychiatrist Alex Tremor. Marina has a vision of Robyn's true love, whom the customer mistakenly believes to be Alex. That evening in the apartment across the street, Alex reacts to Robyn's sudden marriage proposal with skepticism over Marina's psychic abilities. On a nearby rooftop, aspiring young artist Eugene Kearney gazes at Marina as she looks up at the stars.
In the morning, Leo discovers the message, "We are all in the gutter, but some of us are looking at the stars", artistically rendered on the butcher shop window by Eugene. The artist offers to remove the message, but Marina likes it, and hires Eugene to work in the shop, despite warnings from Leo about his poor reputation. Alex appears moments later, reminding Eugene to attend his psychotherapy session, as prescribed by the boy's probation officer. Marina cuts veal chops against her husband’s wishes, and within seconds, a trendoid art patron enters asking for veal chops. Despite his amazement at Marina's prescience, Alex disapproves of the advice she gave Robyn, believing she is foolish to live by something as primitive as female intuition. While exploring her new neighborhood, Marina wanders into a dress shop and convinces dowdy choir mistress Stella Keefover to buy a flashy evening gown, as she will soon be performing in a nightclub. Realizing the impracticality of walking barefoot in the city, Marina buys a pair of shoes, for which she pays $3.50, misinterpreting shopkeeper Grace's request for $350.00. During a therapy session with Alex, Stella shocks the psychiatrist by announcing her intention to become a blues singer inspired by Marina's advice. That evening, Grace approaches Marina about the outstanding balance on the shoes, but changes her mind after the clairvoyant gives her a package of steaks, predicting the shopkeeper will soon be cooking for two.
The next day, Grace exasperates Alex by canceling weekend plans with him and Robyn, certain that she will meet her true love if she remains in the city, as Marina predicted. At the butcher shop, Leo fears that Marina may be a voodoo practitioner, after discovering a mojo given to her by elderly neighbors Molly and Gina, and a pet chicken, given to her by Eugene. At Leo's request Marina attends a session with Alex, but she convinces the psychiatrist to spend the hour rollerskating in the park. Stella gives her debut performance at Dellago's tavern, and enthralls Leo with her rendition of a song made famous by his idol, blues singer Bessie Smith. Meanwhile, Marina demonstrates her psychic ability by holding Alex's hands and recounting key moments fro