The Cable Guy is a 1996 American absurdist satirical black comedy film directed by Ben Stiller, written by Lou Holtz Jr. and starring Jim Carrey and Matthew Broderick. It was released in the United States on June 14, 1996. The film co-stars Leslie Mann, Jack Black, George Segal, Diane Baker, Eric Roberts, Owen Wilson, Janeane Garofalo, David Cross, Andy Dick, Ben Stiller, and Bob Odenkirk.
In the film, Carrey plays an eccentric cable installer who becomes overly intrusive in the life of a customer, played by Broderick. The film was a box office success, though not to the extent of many of Carrey's previous films. It received mixed reception from critics, but has since attained a cult following.


== Plot ==
Architect Steven Kovacs moves into an apartment after a failed marriage proposal to his girlfriend Robin Harris. When the cable installer, Ernie "Chip" Douglas, arrives, Steven acts on advice from his friend Rick and bribes him to get him free movie channels. Chip makes Steven one of his preferred customers and, in return for his services, asks if he can see Steven socially, which Steven begrudgingly agrees to. On a visit to the city's central satellite dish, Chip confides to Steven about being raised by television when he was young, as his father was absent and his mother used television as a "babysitter".
Chip proceeds to intrude more and more on Steven's life, alienating him from his friends, leaving multiple messages on his answering machine and installing an expensive home theater system as a gift. Steven rejects the gift but agrees to let Chip use his apartment to host a party for all of his preferred customers, where Steven sleeps with a young woman whom Chip later reveals was a sex worker he hired for Steven. Upon this revelation, Steven angrily ejects Chip from his apartment. To make amends, Chip tracks down Robin, who is dating another man who he beats up and tells to stay away, and upgrades her cable, ostensibly as a gift from Steven. Robin decides to get back together with Steven as a result, but when Steven finds out Chip's hand in reuniting him with Robin, Steven politely ends his relationship with Chip. 
Devastated, Chip sets out on a series of vengeful acts; he has Steven arrested for possession of stolen property, embarrasses him at a family gathering, and has him fired from his job by transmitting a recorded private conversation in which Steven insults his boss onto the company's computers. He also reveals that his name is in fact Larry Tate. Rick investigates Larry and finds that he was fired from the cable company for using fake names and stalking customers. Steven receives a phone call from Larry, who tells him he is paying Robin a visit, making Steven rush to Robin's apartment. Finding it empty, Steven calls the police and tells them to hurry to where Larry has taken her: the central satellite dish. 
Arriving at the satellite dish first, Steven rescues Robin from Larry, who, as the police arrive, climbs to the top of the dish proclaiming that he must "kill the babysitter" to prevent others from becoming like him. He falls into the dish after cutting the television signal to the entire city, but survives. He apologizes to Steven for being a bad friend, Steven forgives him and asks for his real name, which he says is Ricky Ricardo. As he is airlifted away, one of the paramedics addresses him as "buddy"; when he asks if that's true and the paramedic replies "Yeah, sure you are", the cable guy smiles deviously.


== Cast ==


== Production ==
First-time screenwriter Lou Holtz Jr. had the idea for The Cable Guy while working as a prosecutor in Los Angeles, declaring that he once saw a cable company employee in the hallway of his mother's apartment building and started thinking, "What's he doing here so late?" The screenplay became the subject of a bidding war, won by Columbia Pictures at a price of $750,000, plus a $250,000 additional bonus if the movie got made. The role of the Cable Guy was originally sol