Cape Fear is a 1991 American psychological thriller film directed by Martin Scorsese. It is a remake of the 1962 film of the same title, which was based on the 1957 novel The Executioners by John D. MacDonald. The film stars Robert De Niro, Nick Nolte, Jessica Lange, Joe Don Baker, and Juliette Lewis. Robert Mitchum has a small role in the film, while Gregory Peck (in his final theatrical film role) and Martin Balsam make cameo appearances, all three having starred in the original film.
The film tells the story of a convicted violent rapist who, by using his newfound knowledge of the law and its numerous loopholes, seeks vengeance against a former public defender whom he blames for his 14-year imprisonment due to purposefully faulty defense tactics used during his trial.
Cape Fear marks the seventh collaboration between Scorsese and De Niro. The film was a commercial success and received generally positive reviews from critics. It was nominated for several awards, including the Oscars and Golden Globe Awards for Best Actor (De Niro) and Best Supporting Actress (Juliette Lewis).


== Plot ==
Fourteen years ago, Max Cady was sentenced to 14 years in prison for the rape and battery of a 16-year-old girl. His lawyer Sam Bowden was appalled by Cady's crime and hid evidence of the victim's promiscuity, which might have reduced Max's sentence or even secure his acquittal. Sam assumes that Max, who was illiterate during his trial, is unaware of the shoddy defense he received. However, unbeknownst to Sam, Max is an intelligent and single-minded psychopath. While in prison, Max taught himself to read, studied law, and even attempted several unsuccessful appeals.
After finishing his sentence, Max tracks down Sam, who resides in New Essex, North Carolina, with his wife Leigh and 15-year-old daughter Danielle ("Danny"). 
Max begins to stalk and terrorize the family. After the family dog is poisoned, Sam tries to have Max arrested, but Lieutenant Elgart reminds him that there is no evidence. Max crosses paths with Lori Davis, a courthouse clerk who has a crush on Sam. He rapes, disfigures, and nearly beats her to death. Lori refuses to press charges out of fear that their ongoing flirtation will become public. Dismissing Elgart's implicit suggestion to use his family as bait and excuse for a justifiable homicide, Sam hires private investigator Claude Kersek to follow Max.
Impersonating her new drama teacher, Max approaches Danny and seduces her. When he becomes aware of it, a desperate Sam agrees with Kersek to have Max beaten up. He gives Max a final warning, which Max secretly records. 
Kersek's hired thugs ambush Max; however, Max overpowers and viciously beats them. Max uses Sam's recorded threats and exaggerates his injuries to file for a restraining order against Sam. Max's lawyer petitions the ABA Ethics Committee for Sam's disbarment, triggering a two-day emergency meeting in Raleigh.
Anticipating Max's intention to strike while Sam is away, Kersek and Sam fake his departure. They wait in the Bowden house for Max to break in to shoot him in self-defense. However, Max sneaks in and kills the housekeeper Graciela. Donning her clothes, he ambushes and kills Kersek. Horrified after discovering the bodies, the Bowdens flee to their houseboat docked upstate along the Cape Fear River, not knowing Max has hidden under their car and eventually tracks down their houseboat.
On the boat, Max incapacitates Sam and prepares to rape Leigh and Danny in front of him. Danny sets him on fire with hidden lighter fluid, causing him to jump off the boat. Max clings to a rope and pulls himself back on board. As the boat is rocked by a violent thunderstorm, a badly burned Max confronts Sam, putting him on a mock trial for his deliberate negligence 14 years ago. Beating Sam and eventually getting him to confess that he hid the evidence that would've reduced the sentence, Max berates him for failing to do his duty as a lawyer, sentencing him "to the ninth ci