The "Career Girls Murders" was the name given by the media to the murders of Emily Hoffert and Janice Wylie in their apartment on the Upper East Side of Manhattan on August 28, 1963. George Whitmore Jr. was charged with this and other crimes, but he was later cleared.
The actions of the police department led Whitmore to be improperly accused of this and other crimes, including the murder of Minnie Edmonds and the attempted rape and assault of Elba Borrero. Whitmore was wrongfully incarcerated for 1,216 days — from his arrest on April 24, 1964, until his release on bond on July 13, 1966, and from the revocation of his bond on February 28, 1972, until his exoneration on April 10, 1973. This was after what author T.J. English called in his book The Savage City, "a numbing cycle of trials, convictions, convictions overturned, retrials, and appeals", Whitmore was cleared of all charges and released. Whitmore's treatment by the authorities was cited as an example that led the U.S. Supreme Court to issue the guidelines known as the Miranda rights, with the Supreme Court calling Mr. Whitmore's case "the most conspicuous example" of police coercion in the country. The court issued its 1966 ruling, establishing a set of protections for suspects, including the right to remain silent, in Miranda v. Arizona.


== Crimes ==
On August 28, 1963 (the same day on which Martin Luther King Jr. gave his "I Have a Dream" speech in Washington D.C.), Patricia Tolles, 23, who worked at the book division at Time-Life, returned from work to her apartment on the third floor of 57 East 88th Street in Manhattan, New York City. There, she found the apartment ransacked and a bloody knife in the bathroom. Panicked, she ran to the building lobby and called Max Wylie, the father of her roommate, who lived nearby. He came to investigate, and in one of the bedrooms, he found the bodies of his daughter, Janice, 21, and her roommate, Emily Hoffert, 23, next to a bloodied bed by the windows. They were tied together with strips of cloth and had been stabbed repeatedly with three knives from their own kitchen. Wylie had been stabbed in the chest and lower abdomen, the latter wounds causing partial evisceration, while Hoffert had been knifed in the neck. Hoffert's body was fully clothed, but Wylie's was nude and there was evidence she had been sexually assaulted.
Wylie was the daughter of advertising executive and novelist Max Wylie and niece of novelist Philip Wylie, while Hoffert was the daughter of a Minneapolis surgeon, so they both belonged to prominent families, leading the case to create a press sensation. The media dubbed it the "Career Girls Murders" because Wylie worked as a Newsweek researcher and Hoffert was a schoolteacher. As such, they were representative of the thousands of young women who had come from all over America to New York and other larger cities to seek jobs and careers. Others like them now felt unsafe and the police were under pressure to solve the case. Hundreds of detectives were assigned to the investigation and thousands of people were interviewed, but as the weeks went by no arrests were made.


== Investigation ==
Initially, police believed that the victims knew their killer. The level of violence found is usually an indication of a personal relationship with the victim. There were no signs of forced entry and the apartment, which was on the third floor of a nine-story building, was also guarded by a doorman. Though the apartment was in disarray, nothing appeared to be stolen, so robbery was not believed to be a motive. The victims' hands and feet were bound and then they were tied back-to-back to each other while Wylie was nude and Hoffert was dressed. Two bloody 10- to 12-inch carving knives were found next to the bodies and an additional knife in one of the two bathrooms.
Police theorized that the women were attacked and murdered in the bedroom where their bodies were discovered. They did not immediately release information regardin