Carlito's Way is a 1993 American crime drama film directed by Brian De Palma and written by David Koepp, based on the novels Carlito's Way (1975) and After Hours (1979) by Judge Edwin Torres. It stars Al Pacino, Sean Penn, Penelope Ann Miller, Luis Guzman, John Leguizamo, Jorge Porcel, Joseph Siravo, and Viggo Mortensen.
Pacino plays Carlito Brigante, a Nuyorican criminal who vows to go straight and to retire in paradise. However, his criminal past proves difficult to escape, and he unwittingly ends up being dragged into the same activities that got him imprisoned in the first place. The film is based mainly on After Hours, but used the title of the first novel to avoid it being confused with Martin Scorsese's 1985 film of the same name. This is the second film collaboration between Pacino and De Palma, after Scarface (1983).
Carlito's Way was released on November 12, 1993, by Universal Pictures. It initially received mixed reviews from critics, with a lukewarm result at the box office, though general reception to the film has improved in the subsequent years since its release. The film gained a strong cult following and it’s generally considered one of De Palma’s most enduring films.
Both Penn and Miller received Golden Globe nominations for their performances. A prequel titled Carlito's Way: Rise to Power, based on the first novel, was released direct-to-video in 2005.


== Plot ==
In 1975 New York, after having served five years of a thirty-year prison sentence, career criminal Carlito Brigante is freed on a legal technicality exploited by his close friend and lawyer, Dave Kleinfeld. Carlito vows to end his unlawful activities but is persuaded to accompany his young cousin Guajiro to a drug deal at an illegal speakeasy. Guajiro's suppliers betray and kill him, forcing Carlito to shoot his way out. Later, Carlito takes Guajiro's $30,000 from the botched deal and uses it to buy a stake in a nightclub owned by a gambling addict named Saso, intending to save $75,000 to retire to the Caribbean.
Carlito declines several offers for a business partnership with a hot-headed young gangster from the Bronx named Benny Blanco. Carlito also rekindles his romance with his former girlfriend Gail, a ballet dancer moonlighting as a stripper. Dave develops a love interest with Benny's girlfriend, Steffie, a waitress at the club. Benny's frustration with Carlito's rejections boils over and he confronts Carlito at his table. Carlito publicly humiliates Benny, who reacts by manhandling Steffie. Fueled by his now-extensive use of alcohol and cocaine, Dave brazenly pulls out a gun and threatens to kill Benny, but Carlito intervenes. Despite being personally threatened by Benny himself, Carlito lets him go unharmed, a decision that alienates him from his friend and bodyguard Pachanga.
Dave, who stole $1 million in payoff money from his client, Mafia boss Anthony "Tony T" Taglialucci, is coerced into providing his yacht to help Taglialucci break out of the Rikers Island prison barge. Dave begs for Carlito's assistance in the prison break, and Carlito reluctantly agrees. That night, Carlito, Dave and Taglialucci's son Frankie sail to a floating buoy outside of the barge where Taglialucci is waiting. As they pull Taglialucci aboard, Dave impulsively kills him and Frankie and dumps their bodies in the East River, claiming that they would have killed him anyway. Knowing mob retaliation is imminent, Carlito immediately severs his ties with Dave and decides to leave town with Gail. The next day, Dave is hospitalized after a mob hitman stabs him several times.
The police apprehend Carlito and take him to the office of District Attorney Norwalk, where he learns that Dave has already agreed to perjure himself should Carlito be tried again. Despite being threatened with charges of being an accomplice to the Taglialucci murders, Carlito refuses to betray Dave. In the hospital, Carlito visits Dave, who confesses to selling him out. Having noticed a suspicious m