The Celebration (Danish: Festen) is a 1998 Danish black comedy-drama film directed by Thomas Vinterberg and produced by Nimbus Film. It tells the story of a family gathering to celebrate their patriarch's 60th birthday, during which a family secret is revealed. Vinterberg's inspiration for the film, which he wrote with Mogens Rukov, was an interview broadcast by a Danish radio station, though the interview was later discovered to be a hoax.

Festen was the first film of the Dogme 95 movement, which was created by Vinterberg and his fellow Danish director Lars von Trier. The movement preferred simple and analog production values to allow for the highlighting of plot and performance. The film won the Jury Prize at the 1998 Cannes Film Festival and was selected as the Danish entry for Best Foreign Language Film at the 71st Academy Awards, but it was not chosen as one of the final five nominees for the award.


== Plot ==
Helge, a respected businessman and family patriarch, is celebrating his 60th birthday at the hotel he runs. The birthday party brings together a large group of friends and family, including his wife Else, and their three estranged children; their sullen eldest son Christian arrives from Paris, their boorish younger son Michael arrives with his wife Mette and their three children, and lastly, their well-traveled youngest daughter Helene arrives. The family is still reeling from the loss of Linda, Christian’s twin sister, who took her own life in one of the hotel bathrooms only recently. 
Michael abandons his wife, Mette, and their children by the roadside after seeing Christian walking down the road, and gives Christian a ride to the hotel. Michael is told that he’s been removed from the guest list due to his drunken behaviour from last year, but is told he can stay as long as he maintains the party, doesn’t drink, and stays away from Michelle, a waitress. He fights with Mette about packing their luggage improperly, and later has sex with her. As the guests are given hotel rooms for their stay during the birthday party, Helene is sent to stay in Linda’s room. By following directions written on bathroom tiles, per the instructions of a game they played as children, Helene discovers Linda’s suicide note— but hides it in a medicine bottle after becoming upset at the contents. 
During Helge's birthday dinner, Christian makes a toast, and offers two different cards containing speeches for Helge to pick from. Helge chooses the green card, where Christian reveals to the guests that his father had sexually abused both him and Linda as children. After an initial shocked silence, the party goes on as usual, as guests decide to move past the moment in denial. Helge pulls Christian aside, acting baffled by the accusations and questioning Christian's motivations for slandering him. Christian appears to recant his accusation, but he is spurred to further action by Kim, the hotel chef and a childhood friend, who knows about the abuse. Kim orders Pia and Michelle, two waitresses, to hide the guests' car keys, and Christian continues his toast by accusing Helge of being responsible for Linda's death because of the trauma and abuse caused. Helge again speaks with Christian alone, this time rubbing Christian's troubled personal history in his face, including his having been institutionalized, having no luck with women, and not having been contacted by Linda before she killed herself, saying she felt abandoned by him.
Michael later beats Michelle after she tells him that she had become pregnant as a result of their affair the year before, and she denigrates him and his father.
Further exacerbating the tensions of the party, Helene's black American boyfriend Gbatokai shows up, causing the racist Michael to lead most of the partygoers in singing the racist Danish song "'Jeg har set en rigtig negermand’" to offend him. Else later makes an affectionate toast to her children, during which she accuses Christian of always having an overacti