The Chain Reaction is a 1980 Australian science fiction thriller film directed and written by Ian Barry. The film stars Steve Bisley and Arna-Maria Winchester. The film's plot is about an engineer badly injured in an accident caused by an earthquake. He knows that the nuclear waste will poison the groundwater and wants to warn the public.
The movie features many cast members from Mad Max, among them Mel Gibson as a bearded mechanic, in an uncredited cameo. The taglines used in advertising the film included "A fast drive to Paradise turns into a nuclear nightmare!" and "Mad Max meets The China Syndrome".
The film was rated M in Australia.


== Plot ==
An earthquake in rural Australia causes a dangerous leak at WALDO (Western Atomic Longterm Dumping Organisation), a nuclear waste storage facility. Heinrich Schmidt (Ross Thompson) an engineer badly contaminated in the accident, knows that the leak will poison the groundwater for hundreds of miles around and wants to warn the public. His boss, however, is only interested in protecting himself and believes that the accident should be covered up, when in fact the contamination risks thousands of lives. Heinrich escapes from the facility but is badly injured. Lost in the woods and suffering from amnesia, he is rescued by Larry Stilson (Steve Bisley), a car mechanic and Vietnam Veteran on holiday, and his wife Carmel (Arna-Maria Winchester). As Heinrich tries to piece together his memories of what happened, his boss' thugs are quickly closing in on the trio.


== Cast ==
Steve Bisley – Larry Stilson
Arna-Maria Winchester – Carmel Stilson
Ross Thompson – Heinrich Schmidt
Ralph Cotterill – Gray
Hugh Keays-Byrne – Eagle
Lorna Lesley – Gloria
Richard Moir – Junior Constable Pigott
Patrick Ward – Oates
Laurie Moran – Police Sgt. McSweeney
Michael Long – Doctor
Bill McCluskey – Ralph
Margo Lloyd – Molly
Tim Burns – Survey driver
Arthur Sherman - Byron Langley
Barry Donnelly - Gateman
P. J. Jones - Bernie the Beater
David Bracks - Spray Painter
Jone Winchester - Marcia
Joshua Ward - Jason Stillson
Ryan McKibbon - Stephen Stillson
Kim Gyngell - Crabs
Roger Ward - Moose
Sal Sharah - Pellegrini
Frankie J. Holden - Farts
Mel Gibson – Bearded mechanic (uncredited)
Will Taylor – Little kid


== Production ==

The film was the idea of director Ian Barry. He had been talking to producer David Elfick about making a film called Sparks about a blind film director, based on a short film he had made, but Elfick thought the subject matter would be too difficult to finance. Barry had written another film, a thriller then entitled The Man at the Edge of the Freeway, and Elfick decided to make that instead. The movie was budgeted at $600,000 but the Australian Film Commission thought it was too high so it was re-budgeted at $450,000. George Miller came on the project as associate producer.
Funding came from the Australian Film Commission, Victorian Film Corporation and Hoyts. Shooting started in September 1979 and took place in Sydney and Glen Davis, New South Wales. Elfick says the location at Glen Davis was rumoured to be the site of an aboriginal massacre and was supposed to be cursed; he believed it because filming was extremely difficult.
Filming took longer than expected and the movie went 40% over budget. Miller was tasked with directing the car chase sequences, which featured the Ford Fairlane LTD in most scenes as the preferred vehicle of the antagonistic authority chasing Larry's modified Holden HQ ute. David Elfick also filmed some second unit.
The film was shot with a widescreen anamorphic lens. Post production was reputedly very difficult with representatives from the AFC, VFC and Hoyts supervising and discussing every cut of the film.


== Distribution ==
The film was released shortly after Mad Max and it has a similar theme to that film as well as American films like The China Syndrome in regards to the whole nuclear-apocalyptic storyline.
The film was distributed in Australia by Palm Beach Pi