Rock of Love: Charm School, known as Sharon Osbourne's Charm School in the UK, and as Charm School: Rock of Love Girls in Germany, is the second season of the VH1 reality television series Charm School. Fourteen contestants from both seasons of Rock of Love with Bret Michaels are competing to develop proper etiquette in order to win $100,000. Sharon Osbourne is the host. Rock of Love: Charm School first aired on VH1 on October 12, 2008. Brandi Mahon was ultimately named Charm School Queen and was awarded the $100,000.


== Ten Commandments ==
Thou Shalt Rock Together
Thou Shalt Rock It With Style
Thou Shalt Be Takin' Care of Business
Thou Shalt Not Rock Rude
Thou Shalt Rock Thy Body
Thou Shalt Rock At Love
Thou Shalt Express Thyself
Thou Shalt Know Who Thou Art
Thou Shalt Rock Unto Others
Thou Shalt Be Fully Rockin'


== Contestants ==


== Episode progress ==

  The contestant won the competition.
  The contestant won the challenge and was safe from expulsion.
  The contestant did not win the challenge but was safe from expulsion.
  The contestant was at risk for expulsion.
  The contestant was expelled.
  The contestant withdrew from the competition.
  The contestant returned to "help their enemy" in the penultimate challenge.
In Episode 4, Brandi M was part of the winning team, but was at risk for fighting with Megan after the challenge.
In Episode 7, there were no contestants at risk for elimination since Sharon expelled Brandi C. before calling any other contestants down for elimination.
Episode 10 was a recap episode.
In Episode 11, the three remaining girls got assistance from their "enemies".


== Episodes ==


=== One Bad Apple ===
First aired October 12, 2008
Sharon Osbourne welcomes 14 girls from both seasons of Rock Of Love to Charm School and explains that the girl who shows the most improvement in class, manners, charm and style will be declared "Charm School Queen" and win US$100,000. The girls rush into the house to find their rooms. Heather is upset because she's assigned to be in the same room with Brandi C. and Megan; she's hated both of them since they got her kicked off of I Love Money. Dallas is also unhappy because she is forced to room with Lacey, their dispute from Season 1 still unresolved. Brandi C. introduces Megan to Lacey and the two become fast friends and begin to form an alliance. Once outside, Lacey begins to antagonize Dallas and tickles her butt. Becoming upset, Dallas states she dislikes being touched in inappropriate places and pours her drink on Lacey. Lacey responds by throwing her drink on Dallas, after which Dallas throws an apple at Lacey, which strikes her in the ear. Meanwhile, Jessica, Megan and Brandi C. make an attempt to make friends with Raven, while Raven remains uninterested in communicating with them. Raven then fights with Megan, Jessica, and Brandi C. because they feel Raven is acting as if she is superior to the others and to Charm School. Courtney tries to limit her alcohol consumption, while Brandi M. purposely gives her vodka, but fails and passes out.
As the administration ceremony begins, Courtney is inebriated to the point of having difficulty to enter the room, and must be helped by Raven and Rodeo. Sharon introduces the deans, Riki and Daniella, and then shows the girls DVDs depicting their worst moments from Rock Of Love. Courtney feels unwell and reeks of alcohol. Thus, Sharon has Destiney and Jessica take her up to her room so she can sober up. While the girls prepare for the first elimination, Courtney wakes up, composes herself and shows up for the elimination ceremony. Riki asks Raven if she really wants to be on the show, following Dallas having informed him earlier that Raven feels she does not need to be on the show and wants to  back to Long Beach. As she begins to talk about herself, Sharon concludes that Raven's decision to quit is quite clear and takes away her pledge pin; Raven leaves. At this point, the tension lightens as the contestants assume tha