The Chaser are an Australian satirical comedy group, best known for their television programmes and satirical news masthead. The group take their name from their satirical newspaper, a publication known to challenge conventions of taste. The group's motto is "Striving for Mediocrity in a World of Excellence".


== Founding ==
The Chaser's earliest foundation was a satirical school paper called The Tiger, created by future members Charles Firth, Dominic Knight and Chas Licciardello as a way to "wring as much money as [they] could out of their expensive private school" while attending Sydney Grammar.
The three then met Julian Morrow, Craig Reucassel and Andrew Hansen at the University of Sydney while working on the university newspaper Honi Soit. Chris Taylor also attended the University of Sydney but never knew the others during that time, joining the Chaser later after volunteering as a contributor while working as a journalist in Melbourne.
In 1999, the group began their first newspaper project titled The Chaser as their time at university drew to a close, in "an attempt not to grow up" as described by Firth.


== The Chaser members ==


=== The "Boys" ===
The founding members of the Chaser became colloquially known as "the Chaser Boys" in the media due to their undergraduate style hijinks during the War on Everything.

Charles Firth. Firth decided in 1999 that the founding members should produce a newspaper, and was at the helm of the newspaper until its collapse in 2005. Firth appeared in The Chaser's television and radio productions until 2004 when he moved to the United States so his wife could finish her PhD, instead serving as The Chaser's "American correspondent" until returning to take over the Chaser's publishing business in 2015.
Dominic Knight was one of the founding members of the team. Although he initially performed in the Chaser's early TV and stage shows, Dom moved to a behind the scenes role after 2004. He regularly features in the team's podcast and radio work.
Julian Morrow. He became the executive producer of the television series after Andrew Denton left the role in 2004.
Craig Reucassel was a founding member of the team, and is described by the team as "the one successful one".
Chas Licciardello started work on The Chaser newspaper in 1999 under a pseudonym. Licciardello refers to himself as a writer and not a performer, which is why he does the 'edgier' stunts in the television series. Licciardello has stepped back from appearing in Chaser roles since 2016's Election Desk due to commitments with his current affairs show Planet America.
Chris Taylor had gone to the University of Sydney but never personally knew the four founding members. Initially a long distance contributor, Taylor spent two years emailing his articles to The Chaser, before quitting his job to do a television series based on the 2001 Australian federal election with the team, eventually becoming a member of troupe. Chris has not appeared in the Chaser's TV shows since 2009, stating that he thought they were "getting a bit s--t", though he has continued contributing to their print, radio, and online work.
Andrew Hansen started working with the online Chaser website in 2000 writing columns as a favour to his friend Firth. After two years, he was considered for a part in the Chaser's television series due to the need for a musical performer, and joined the team permanently in after that.


=== The Checkout team ===
Following the end of the War on Everything, a number of researchers and writers were elevated to on-screen roles for the new series The Hamster Wheel, with this team growing through four seasons of The Checkout, to 2016's Election Desk.

Ben Jenkins
Zoe Norton-Lodge
Kirsten Drysdale
Scott Abbott
Alex Lee
Mark Sutton
David Cunningham
Hannah Reilly


=== The Interns ===

Following the relaunch of the Chaser website in 2015, the Chaser held a competition recruiting "interns" to help execute stunts and pranks without being recognise