Chasing Amy is a 1997 American romantic comedy-drama film written and directed by Kevin Smith and starring Ben Affleck, Joey Lauren Adams, and Jason Lee. The third film in Smith's View Askewniverse series, the film is about a male comic artist (Affleck) who falls in love with a lesbian (Adams), to the displeasure of his best friend (Lee).
The film was originally inspired by a brief scene from an early film by a friend of Smith's. In Guinevere Turner's Go Fish, one of the lesbian characters imagines her friends passing judgment on her for "selling out" by sleeping with a man. Smith was dating Adams at the time he was writing the script, which was also partly inspired by her.
The film received mostly positive reviews, praising the humor, performances and Kevin Smith's direction. The film won two awards at the 1998 Independent Spirit Awards (Best Screenplay for Smith and Best Supporting Actor for Lee). Characters from the film would go on to appear in later Askewniverse films Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back (2001) and Jay and Silent Bob Reboot (2019), direct spin-offs of Chasing Amy, with Affleck, Lee, Adams and Ewell reprising their roles in cameo appearances; Smith described the characters' roles in Jay and Silent Bob Reboot as being an "eight-page sequel" to Chasing Amy.


== Plot ==
While promoting their comic Bluntman and Chronic at a comic book convention, comic book artists and lifelong best friends Holden McNeil and Banky Edwards meet Alyssa Jones. A struggling writer, Alyssa is friends with Hooper, an African-American writer and activist who masks his flamboyantly gay personality with a militant image to promote his comic White-Hating Coon. Immediately attracted to her, Holden soon learns she is a lesbian.
Holden and Alyssa begin spending time with each other, and a deep friendship soon develops. This upsets the homophobic Banky, who resents Alyssa for intervening in their affairs. The duo's business partnership also suffers, as they had been close to signing a lucrative deal to adapt Bluntman and Chronic into an animated TV series, and Banky feels that Holden no longer cares about their project.
Unable to contain his feelings, Holden confesses his love to Alyssa. She is initially angry with him, but they later reconcile, sleep together, and begin a romantic relationship, which worsens things with Banky. An old friend of Banky's, who grew up with Alyssa, tells Holden she participated in a threesome with two boys back in high school. Holden is deeply disturbed by the revelation, having believed that he is the first man Alyssa had ever slept with.
Hooper advises Holden to be honest and truthful and ask Alyssa about her past. Hooper also thinks that Banky is jealous and in love with Holden, disguising his true feelings with macho sexual banter. The following night, Holden clumsily attempts to bait Alyssa into confessing, which she eventually does, and storms out of the arena. In the parking lot, Alyssa angrily admits to the threesome but refuses to apologize for her past sexual experiences, wanting to continue their relationship. Holden leaves feeling unsure.
Later, Holden meets Jay and Silent Bob, inspirations for Bluntman and Chronic, at a local diner. He hands them their residual pay for book sales and discusses his troubles. Bob reveals that a couple of years earlier, he had a girlfriend named Amy. Although he loved her, his insecurities about her past promiscuity caused him to break up with her. He regretted it and has spent a long time "chasing Amy."
Holden devises a plan to fix both his relationship with Alyssa and his fractured friendship with Banky. He invites them over and tells Alyssa that he would like to get over her past and remain her boyfriend while telling Banky that he realizes that he is in love with Holden. He proposes a threesome, which he believes will both end his envy towards Alyssa's broader experiences and resolve Banky's issues with them being a couple. The initially shocked Banky agrees to partici