Child's Play is a 1988 American supernatural slasher film directed by Tom Holland, from a screenplay he co-wrote with Don Mancini and John Lafia, and a story by Mancini. The film stars Catherine Hicks and Chris Sarandon with Brad Dourif as Chucky. Its plot follows a widowed mother who gives a doll to her son, unaware that the doll is possessed by the soul of a serial killer.
Child's Play was released in the United States on November 9, 1988, by MGM/UA Communications Co. It received generally positive reviews from critics and grossed more than $44 million against a production budget of $9 million. Along with the film gaining a 1980s cult following, the box office success also spawned a media franchise that includes a series of six sequels, merchandise, comic books, a reboot, and a television series. The original Child's Play film was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, although the rights to the series were sold to Universal Pictures in 1990. MGM retained the rights to the original film and also distributed the reboot in 2019.


== Plot ==
In 1988 Chicago, detective Mike Norris chases fugitive serial killer Charles Lee Ray through the streets of Chicago and into a toy store, while Mike's colleague chases Rays accomplice, Eddie Caputo. Shot by Norris and dying, Ray performs a voodoo chant to transfer his soul into a nearby Good Guy-brand talking doll. The store is struck by lightning and explodes, and Norris finds Ray's lifeless body next to the doll.
Widow Karen Barclay's six-year-old son Andy wants a Good Guy doll for his birthday, but she cannot afford one. She later buys a discounted Good Guy doll from a homeless peddler and Andy is delighted to receive it. The doll refers to itself as "Chucky". That night, Karen's best friend Maggie, who is babysitting Andy, is attacked by Chucky, causing her to fall out of a window to her death. Norris considers Andy a suspect but he claims that it was Chucky and that Chucky told him his real name was "Charles Lee Ray".
The next day, Andy skips school and takes the subway into a sketchy neighborhood in Chicago. Chucky sneaks into the home Caputo is hiding in and kills him by causing a gas explosion as revenge for abandoning him. Andy is again considered a suspect and admitted to a psychiatric hospital. Back home, Karen discovers that the doll has been moving and speaking on its own without batteries. Chucky violently comes alive and attacks her before escaping. Karen goes to Norris but he does not believe her. She finds the peddler for more information but is almost assaulted; Norris saves her and forces the peddler to admit that he stole the doll from the destroyed toy store where Norris killed Ray. 
Norris is still skeptical even though Karen tries to warn him that he's next after Caputo. Sure enough, not too long after, Norris is attacked by Chucky. He shoots the doll, whose wound inexplicably bleeds and causes pain. Chucky escapes to his former voodoo instructor John, demanding answers; John informs him that the longer his soul remains in the doll, the more "human" the doll will become. He refuses to help and is subsequently tortured by Chucky with a voodoo doll, forcing him to reveal that in order to escape the doll's body, he must transfer his soul to the first human he revealed his true identity to which in this case is Andy. Chucky leaves for Andy as Karen and Norris find a dying John. Before dying, John tells them that to kill Chucky, they must strike his heart.
Chucky arrives at the psychiatric hospital and kills Andy's doctor with an electroshock therapy device. Andy flees home, where Chucky knocks him out. As he prepares to possess him, Karen and Norris arrive. Chucky stabs Norris but Karen and Andy set him on fire. A horribly-burned Chucky attacks again, but Karen shoots him, blowing his limbs and head off. Norris' partner Jack arrives, refusing to believe the trio until Chucky's body bursts through a vent to strangle him. Norris shoots Chucky's body through the heart, finally