Child's Play 2 is a 1990 American supernatural slasher film and the direct sequel to Child's Play, written by Don Mancini and directed by John Lafia, one of the co-writers of the first film. It is the second installment in the Child's Play franchise and set two years after the first film; the plot follows Charles Lee Ray (better known as Chucky) continuing his pursuit for Andy Barclay, who was placed in foster care, and transferring his soul into him after being resurrected. Alex Vincent and Brad Dourif reprised their roles while Christine Elise, Jenny Agutter, Gerrit Graham and Grace Zabriskie joined the cast.
Child's Play 2 was released on November 9, 1990, exactly two years after the first film was released, and grossed over $35 million on a budget of $13 million. It was followed by a sequel, Child's Play 3, 9 months later.


== Plot ==
In 1990, two years after the death of Chucky, the Play Pals Corporation, who produce the Good Guy doll line, is attempting to recover from the negative publicity surrounding the event. To reassure its stockholders that there was nothing actually wrong with the doll, they acquire Chucky's remains and reassemble him. During the process, a power surge fatally electrocutes one of the assembly line workers and reanimates Chucky. Mr. Sullivan, the CEO of the company, orders his assistant Mattson to dispose of the doll to hide the evidence of the incident.
Meanwhile, Andy Barclay, now eight years old, has been in foster care ever since his mother was institutionalized for backing up Andy's story about the killer doll. Andy goes to live with foster parents Phil and Joanne Simpson, who are also fostering Kyle, a cynical, street-smart teenage girl. Chucky discovers Andy's whereabouts by using Mattson's car phone to call Grace Poole, the manager of Andy's foster center, before suffocating Mattson with a plastic bag.
Chucky infiltrates the home and takes the place of another Good Guy doll, "Tommy," which he buries in the backyard. Andy begins to bond with Kyle after the two are punished for an heirloom Chucky destroyed. That night, Chucky ties Andy to his bed and reveals himself, but Kyle enters the room before he can complete the voodoo chant to possess him. Kyle doesn't believe Andy's assertions about Chucky while Phil and Joanne blame Kyle and throw Chucky in the basement. Chucky realizes that his body is becoming human after suffering a nosebleed. 
The next day, Chucky secretly follows Andy to school and defaces his homework, resulting in Andy being assigned detention. Chucky kills Andy's teacher Miss Kettlewell by stabbing her with a pump and then beating her multiple times with a yardstick, but Andy manages to escape. Andy tries to warn his foster parents about Chucky, but Phil refuses to believe him and considers returning him to the foster center.
That night, Andy sneaks into the basement to destroy Chucky with an electric knife, but the doll overpowers him. When Phil arrives to investigate the commotion, Chucky trips him, causing Phil to fall and break his neck. Joanne immediately blames Andy for Phil's death and sends him back to the foster center. After throwing Chucky in the garbage, Kyle discovers "Tommy" buried outside and realizes Andy was telling the truth all along. She rushes to warn Joanne, only to discover that Chucky has already killed her. Chucky ambushes Kyle and forces her to drive him to the foster center. There, Chucky clears the building by pulling the fire alarm. He stabs Grace to death and forces Andy to take him to the Play Pals factory to perform the voodoo chant. 
Kyle pursues them to the factory but is unable to find them before Chucky knocks Andy unconscious and completes the ritual. Unfortunately for Chucky, the spell fails as he has spent too much time in his doll body and is now permanently trapped. Enraged, Chucky chases Andy and Kyle through the factory, during which he rips off his own hand after having it trapped under a gate and subsequently replaces it with a k