Spirit: Stallion of the Cimarron (also known as Spirit) is a 2002 American animated Western film produced by DreamWorks Animation and distributed by DreamWorks Pictures. The film was directed by Kelly Asbury and Lorna Cook (in their feature directorial debuts) from a screenplay by John Fusco, based on an idea by Jeffrey Katzenberg, who produced the film alongside Mireille Soria. The film combines traditional animation and computer animation.
Set in the Old West in the late 19th century, the film follows Spirit, a Kiger mustang stallion (voiced by Matt Damon as a narrator), who is captured during the American Indian Wars by the United States Cavalry; he is eventually freed by a Lakota man named Little Creek with whom he bonds, as well as a mare named Rain. In contrast to the anthropomorphic style of animal characters in other animated features, Spirit and his fellow horses communicate with each other through non-linguistic sounds and body language (albeit with many human facial expressions and reactions).
Spirit: Stallion of the Cimarron was released in theaters on May 24, 2002, and was a box office disappointment, earning only $122 million on an $80 million budget, but received positive reviews. It was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Animated Feature. The film also launched a media franchise completely using computer animation, with a Netflix spin-off television series Spirit Riding Free premiering on May 5, 2017, followed by  a spin-off of the original film, titled Spirit Untamed, released on June 4, 2021.


== Plot ==
In the late 19th-century American West, around 1892 a Kiger mustang colt, Spirit, is born to a herd of wild horses; he grows into a stallion, and assumes the leadership of the herd. One night, upon following a strange light near his herd, Spirit finds horses tied to a log and their wranglers sleeping around a campfire. The men awaken, and, after a chase, capture Spirit and take him to a US cavalry fort.
The senior officer of the fort, the Colonel, orders Spirit to be broken; however, Spirit defies all attempts. The Colonel retaliates by having him tied to a post for three days without food or water. Meanwhile, a Lakota Indian named Little Creek is also brought into the fort and held captive; his friends toss a knife over the wall for him, which he uses to secretly cut his bonds.
After three days, Spirit is weak enough that the Colonel temporarily subdues him, boasting that any wild horse can eventually be tamed. Seeing the other captive horses' disappointment, Spirit gets a second wind and throws the Colonel off.  Angered, the humiliated Colonel attempts to shoot Spirit in the head; however, Little Creek saves the horse, and the two escape, setting the other captive horses free in the process.
Little Creek and his fellow Lakotas lasso Spirit and return to their village; there,  Little Creek unsuccessfully attempts to tame Spirit with kindness. Little Creek ties the other end of Spirit's lead rope to his own pet mare, Rain, hoping she can discipline him. Spirit eventually falls in love with Rain, despite not understanding her attachment to humans. He and Little Creek gradually come to respect each other; realizing that Spirit is not meant to be domesticated, Little Creek sets him free.
Spirit starts back towards his herd, and tries to convince Rain to come with him. They notice the Colonel and his men charging to attack the Lakota village in retaliation for their stolen horses, and return to help. During the confrontation, the Colonel shoots Rain and she falls into a river; he is about to shoot Little Creek, but Spirit knocks the Colonel off his horse, deflecting the shot and saving Little Creek's life. Trying to rescue Rain, Spirit leaps into the river, but they both plummet over a waterfall. Once out of the water, Spirit stays by Rain's side, only for the cavalry to recapture him and leave her for dead. Little Creek tends to Rain; realizing that Spirit saved his life, he sets out in pursuit of the cav