Sette note in nero (lit. 'Seven notes in black') is a 1977 Italian giallo film directed by Lucio Fulci and co-written by him with Roberto Gianviti and Dardano Sacchetti. Sette note in nero stars Jennifer O'Neill, Gianni Garko, Marc Porel, and Ida Galli. The film involves a woman who begins experiencing psychic visions that lead her to discover a murder; her husband is charged with the killing. The psychic must embark on an investigation with a paranormal researcher to clear her husband's name of the crime.
The film was released in the United States as The Psychic, and also as Seven Notes in Black. Other alternate titles include Murder to the Tune of the Seven Black Notes and Death Tolls Seven Times.


== Plot ==
In 1959, a mother in Dover kills herself by leaping from a cliff; at the same time, her daughter, Virginia, living in Florence, witnesses the death in a vision. Eighteen years later, an adult Virginia (Jennifer O'Neill) has married a rich Italian businessman Francesco Ducci (Gianni Garko). After Francesco leaves on a business trip, Virginia experiences new visions consisting of seemingly unrelated people and objects, including a murdered old woman. Virginia plans to renovate an abandoned mansion owned by her husband but realises that it resembles a building she has seen in her visions. After noticing a crack in the plaster, she hacks a hole into the wall of a room, finding a skeleton inside it. Assuming the skeleton is that of the dead woman, Virginia contacts the police. However, they do not believe her story and charge Francesco with the killing.
Examination of the body reveals it not to be an old woman, but one in her twenties; killed about five years earlier. The skeleton is identified as Francesco's ex-girlfriend, Agneta Bignardi, who vanished several years ago. Virginia is determined to exonerate her husband, and contacts her friend Luca Fattori (Marc Porel), a researcher of psychic phenomena. Luca's investigation eventually leads to the wealthy Emilio Rospini (Gabriele Ferzetti), who may be the true culprit.
When Francesco returns from his business trip, he urges Virginia to dismiss the matter from her mind. Instead, she grows more and more obsessed with solving the mystery. Virginia discusses the case with Francesco's sister Gloria (Evelyn Stewart), and Melli (Riccardo Parisio Perrotti), a lawyer friend of Gloria's. Gloria says that her brother left for a business trip to America in April 1972, and that she was the one who changed the furniture of the place. The room with the walled-in corpse had been Franceso's bedroom, but it was Gloria who had bought the furniture that Virginia saw in her vision, after Francesco's departure.
A few days later, Virginia buys a magazine which runs a picture of the murdered woman on the front cover, exactly the same magazine from Virginia's vision. When Luca notices that the magazine has only existed for a year, it becomes apparent to him that Virginia has experienced a premonition, not a vision of past crimes. Virginia and Luca find more evidence that appears to clear Francesco, allowing him to get released on bail. Gloria, in the meantime, gives Virginia a wristwatch as a gift, one that plays a haunting tune on the hour.
Details from the premonitions start to occur in front of Virginia with greater and greater frequency. Virginia takes a yellow taxi, with a blinking CB radio light, from Luca's office to her home (just as seen in her vision). The mysterious old woman phones Virginia, leaving a message on her answering machine, offering information about the case. When Virginia arrives at her house, she finds her dead (in the same position from Virginia's vision). Rospini appears and Virginia flees in panic. Grabbing a vital letter featured on a coffee table in her vision, Virginia escapes down the road to a neighboring church that is undergoing repairs. Virginia's hiding place is given away when her wristwatch chimes go off. Rospini tries to reach her on a wooden scaffold, but 