The Concorde... Airport '79 is a 1979 American air disaster film (in the UK, it was released a year later as Airport '80: The Concorde) and the fourth and final installment of the Airport franchise. Although critically panned and earning poorly in North America, the film was a commercial success internationally, grossing a total of $65 million on a $14 million budget.
The film was directed by David Lowell Rich. The all-star cast includes George Kennedy, who appeared in all four films from the Airport series, and starring Alain Delon, Susan Blakely and Robert Wagner in the main roles.  Mercedes McCambridge and Martha Raye have cameos.


== Plot ==
Kevin Harrison, a corrupt arms dealer, attempts to destroy an American-owned Concorde on its maiden flight after one of the passengers, reporter Maggie Whelan, learns of his weapons sales to communist countries during the Cold War.
The Concorde takes off from Charles de Gaulle Airport in Paris and lands at Dulles Airport outside Washington, D.C., despite being forced to perform a go around when environmental protestors deliberately fly a hot air balloon into its approach path.
Maggie reports on the flight the following day, which leads to a story of Harrison and his Buzzard surface-to-air missile project. A man named Carl Parker shows up to Maggie with a claim about documentation of illegal arms deals, but is shot by an assailant who chases Maggie throughout the house before a passerby triggers a fire alarm, scaring the assailant away.
Maggie is told by Harrison someone is framing him. He sends Maggie off in a limo, then plots to destroy the Concorde with Maggie on it by reprogramming an attack drone test with the Concorde as the new target.
Capt. Joe Patroni and Capt. Paul Metrand board the Concorde, where they are joined by Peter O'Neill, the 2nd officer and flight engineer.
Harrison surprises Maggie at the airline check-in desk to see her off. He asks whether the documents have shown up, but they have not. As he is walking away, Parker's wife delivers the documents to Maggie as she steps into the mobile lounge. She looks them over and realizes that Harrison has lied to her.
The Concorde takes off for Paris. Unbeknownst to the flight crew, an off-course surface-to-air missile is headed straight for them. At his company headquarters, Harrison tells his controllers to alert the government. The USAF scrambles F-15 fighter jets to intercept the missile as it locks onto the Concorde. After several evasive maneuvers by the passenger plane, an F-15 shoots down the missile.
As the Concorde is approaching the European coastline, an F-4 Phantom II sent by Harrison engages the Concorde as French Air Force Mirage F1s scramble to help. The Concorde evades the F-4's missiles, but the explosion of one of them damages the plane's hydraulics. The Mirages shoot down the F-4 before the Concorde reaches the French coastline to continue towards Paris.  Due to hydraulic system damage, the plane lands at Le Bourget Airport instead of Charles de Gaulle.  The Concorde barely stops at the last safety net. Metrand and Isabelle invite Patroni to dinner.
Harrison promises Maggie to go public with the documents but attempts to bribe her into "polishing" his statement. After being paid by Harrison, a mechanic, Froelich, places a device in the Concorde's cargo door control unit, timed to open during flight.
As the passengers board, Froelich is in line at the security checkpoint when some of his money falls out of his trouser leg. The X-ray technician attempts to return it, but Froelich pretends not to hear and runs off. On the runway, where the Concorde is taking off, the aircraft's exhaust renders Froelich unconscious and scatters the money he received from Harrison.
En route to Moscow, the automatic device opens the cargo door. Metrand sees the carpet tear down the middle of the aisle, signifying the fuselage is under tremendous stress and the aircraft is about to break apart. The cargo door is ripped off,  caus