The Conformist (Il conformista) is a novel by Alberto Moravia published in 1951, which details the life and desire for normality of a government official during Italy's fascist period. It is also known for the 1970 film adaptation by Bernardo Bertolucci.


== Synopsis ==


=== Prologue ===
A boy named Marcello kills lizards in the yard near his home. He tries to coax his neighbor and friend Roberto into offering approval of this behavior, to no avail. They then fight, and Roberto leaves. After obtaining a slingshot, Marcello fires stones through the ivy that covers the fence around Roberto's house, only to find that he has killed their family cat instead of Roberto. Marcello is mortified not so much by his actions but by the "abnormality" of his sentiments.
Marcello later witnesses a fight between his parents. His father ultimately chases his mother around the house and attacks her in the bedroom, leaving Marcello torn between whether to rescue his mother or aid his father. 
When the summer is over, Marcello is tormented by his classmates, who use his "effeminate" appearance to question his gender. One day, five classmates follow Marcello from school and try to force him to wear a skirt. However, their attack is interrupted by Lino, a chauffeur who then offers to drive Marcello home. En route, Lino appears to proposition Marcello, offering him a pistol in exchange for unspecified actions. Lino, who is actually a former priest de-frocked for indecent behavior, ultimately stops himself before initiating any actions with Marcello. He begs the boy to ignore him if he tries to speak to him again. Marcello does not fully understand what is happening.
His mother and cook discover that his father has vandalized a photograph of Marcello and her by poking holes through their eyes and drawing streaks of blood on their faces. This seems to mark the beginning of his decline into mental illness.
At school, Marcello decides that the pistol may help him gain his classmates' respect. So, he meets Lino again. This time, Lino locks himself in his room with Marcello and tells him he will not escape the abuse to come. During the struggle, Lino's gun comes loose and Marcello grabs it. When Lino asks Marcello to shoot, the latter complies and flees out the window, leaving the pistol behind.


=== Part I ===
In 1937 Marcello is an employee of the Italian Fascist government, looking through old newspaper clippings for information on the incident with Lino. He ultimately finds an obituary that blames the death on an accident during the cleaning of the gun.
Orlando, a colleague of Marcello, asks him to participate in a mission to Paris. A former professor of Marcello, Quadri, is an anti-fascist agitator, and the Italian government would like to infiltrate his organization. Marcello is also due to be married to someone named Giulia and offers to have his honeymoon in Paris so that his presence there would not raise suspicions.
Marcello also takes confession, despite his apparent atheism, as a prelude to the Catholic wedding Giulia expects. He confesses to murdering Lino, and the priest indicates that he can seek absolution if he feels true remorse for his actions – an emotion that Marcello does not appear capable of feeling.
In the days leading up to the wedding, Marcello's mother-in-law lavishingly praises him while his mother lives alone in squalor. For six years, his father has been in an asylum, where he believes he is one of Mussolini's top aides. On the way to see his father, Marcello's mother gives him a wedding present but indicates that she will not be attending the ceremony. Marcello and his mother make their monthly visit to his father, who neither recognizes them nor acknowledges their presence.


=== Part II ===
En route to Paris, Marcello makes a scheduled stop at a brothel in a small town in France, where he is to meet Orlando for further instructions. There, Marcello is mistaken for a client, causing him some embarrassment before Orlando 