Corrina, Corrina is a 1994 American comedy-drama film set in the Los Angeles suburbs of the 1950s about a widower (Ray Liotta) who hires a housekeeper/nanny (Whoopi Goldberg) to care for his daughter (Tina Majorino). It was written and directed by Jessie Nelson, in her feature film directing debut. It was the final film in which Don Ameche starred; he died shortly after filming was completed.


== Plot ==
In 1959 Los Angeles, jingle writer Manny Singer is a recent widower with a young daughter, Molly, who is not coping well with the death of her mother Annie and refuses to speak. Manny decides to hire a housekeeper and nanny to help fill the void of his wife's absence as he returns to work.
The first housekeeper Manny hires quickly quits, and soon afterward Corrina Washington, an African-American woman, interviews for the position. Molly responds well to her, so Manny hires her and she quickly forms a strong bond with Molly. Corrina works out a system for Molly to communicate "yes" or "no" without having to actually speak. She helps Molly to heal from her mother's death, including telling her that her mother is in heaven, which Manny objects to as he is an atheist and his wife was as well, only for Corrina to suggest that it is better to acknowledge an afterlife than to lie to Molly about her mother's whereabouts.
Corrina sees the early struggles of life after Annie's death, and Molly slowly begins to interact more with Corrina. Molly also begins to spend time with Corrina's family, who take her to church and welcome her into their home. At an office party, Manny is introduced to Jenny, a perky divorcee with two young sons. Manny is still struggling with losing Annie and is not ready to date. Corrina's sister Jevina encourages her to date a man their color, Anthony, but Corrina shows no interest.
A frightened Molly returns to a whites-only school where she is bullied for adding Corrina to her family picture. She runs into Corrina's arms at the end of the day, desperate to go home. That night, Molly awakes from a nightmare, Corrina and Manny run to her side but she is scared and angry. Corrina tells her she is allowed to be mad. Manny admits to her how hurt he is about losing Annie and how much he misses her too. That night Jevina chastises Corrina for pretending to become a part of this family.
A terrified Molly begs Corrina to let her stay home from school and she secretly agrees. Corrina spends more time with them, and soon she and Manny slowly discover they are more compatible with each other than with anyone else. He confides in her about Annie and she talks about her long gone former husband. They share a love of music and she even assists him on his new jingle. After a successful advertising campaign, he comes home with flowers for Molly as well as Corrina. Their private celebration is interrupted by a visit from Jenny, which Corrina takes as a cue that she is not meant to stay.
The next day, a flustered Corrina goes to work where Manny apologizes for Jenny's uninvited visit. As they say goodbye, they share a kiss on the cheek, which Manny's nosey neighbor sees. Corrina and Manny begin to fall in love and face prejudice as an interracial couple. Molly asks her grandfather Harry to make sure that Manny marries Corrina. That night, Corrina and Manny talk about their spouses and share a moonlight dance and kiss that is witnessed by Molly.
After weeks of playing hooky from school, Corrina tells Molly it's almost time for her to return, but Molly says she's not yet ready. Soon after, Manny finds out that Corrina has been letting Molly stay home from school. In a fit of anger, he tells her that she is not Molly's mother and fires her, taking a heartbroken Molly home. Molly becomes withdrawn again, and Manny learns that Harry has died. After the funeral, he goes to visit Corrina at her house to tell her of Harry's death and to properly apologize. After an unsuccessful talk, she overhears his not-so quiet prayers to God to help 