Cousin Bette is a 1998 British–American comedy-drama film starring Jessica Lange in the title role and is loosely based on the novel of the same name by the French author Honoré de Balzac.


== Plot ==
The wealthy Hulot family gathers at the deathbed of their matron Adeline (Geraldine Chaplin). Adeline's husband, the Baron Hector Hulot (Hugh Laurie), has squandered their fortune with his long standing competition with the wealthy Crevel to have the most extravagant mistresses, and plunged them heavily into debt.
Adeline's Cousin Bette (Jessica Lange), a poor and aging spinster, has spent her life supporting Adeline and her family with little return, and promises the dying Adeline that she will watch over the family, especially Adeline's young, unmarried daughter, Hortense (Kelly Macdonald). Because they were poor as children, their family chose to sacrifice Bette and launch only Adeline into an advantageous marriage due to her greater beauty, a fact which has caused Bette much hardship and extreme resentment in life.
Believing the death of Adeline would result in reward at last, Bette is infuriated when what she believed to be a proposal of marriage and an offer of a true place in the family from Baron Hulot is, in fact, an offer of employment to work as their (unpaid) housekeeper.
Bette returns to her humble apartment and continues her meager living as the costume maker for a Burlesque theater, where she becomes friends with the headliner of the show: the famed courtesan (and Baron Hulot's mistress) Jenny Cadine (Elisabeth Shue), and saves the life of a young and handsome sculptor living in her building—the displaced and impoverished Count Wenceslas Steinbach (Aden Young). Bette dotes on Wenceslas, giving him money, attention, and guidance, which she carefully tabulates in a book of debts she expects him to repay. Under Bette's predatory control and strict work schedules, the lackadaisical young artist is forced to become more productive and successful. 
Finding joy in her handsome new companion, whom she views with maternal, romantic, and sexual possessiveness, Bette tells her niece, Hortense, of her "sweetheart," Wenceslas, and of her new happiness. The young and spoiled Hortense is parched from a steady stream of ugly, dull, (but wealthy,) suitors, including her father's rival, Creval, who makes her lewd offers of great sums to see her naked. Hortense is intrigued by the romanticism of her aunt's stories of the handsome artist who happens to be a lord and decides to hunt him down in secret and steal him for herself. Preferring youth, indulgence, and beauty to Cousin Bette's repugnant and gargoyle-like possessiveness, Wenceslas jumps at the chance offered by the pretty, young noblewoman: the pair rebelliously indulge in a dalliance behind Cousin Bette's back, before marrying in haste so Wenceslas can accept a prestigious art commission secured for him by Baron Hulot. If successful, this commission would guarantee Wenceslas' major debut.
Bette views the theft of Wenceslas, whom she saw as hers, as the final betrayal and vows revenge. Enlisting the aid of Jenny, Bette begins to manipulate the Hulot family into succumbing to their baser desires and courting their own demises.
One after the other, they fall into ruin under a combination of their family's precarious finances and Bette's subtle manipulations. Wenceslas, overly distracted and indulged as a rich new husband, philosophizes about being an artist more than he ever actually works at being an artist. Frittering away his time and money, he fails to complete the art commission and faces demands for the full repayment of the commission fee after he presents a barely touched block of marble. Wenceslas has completely squandered the money and the deeply in debt Baron Hulot cannot cover it, either. Hortense tries to gain the repayment money by appealing to the perverted Creval and agreeing to his earlier offers of favors for money. Bette manages to intercept and steal these fu