Crimes of the Heart is a 1986 American black comedy-drama film directed by Bruce Beresford from a screenplay written by Beth Henley adapted from her Pulitzer Prize-winning 1979 play of the same name. It stars Diane Keaton, Jessica Lange, Sissy Spacek, Sam Shepard, Tess Harper, and Hurd Hatfield. The film's narrative follows the Magrath sisters, Babe, Lenny and Meg, who reunite in their family home in Mississippi after Babe is arrested for shooting her husband. Each sister is forced to face the consequences of the "crimes of the heart" she has committed.
Crimes Of The Heart was theatrically released by  De Laurentiis Entertainment Group on December 12, 1986. It received positive reviews with critics praising its screenplay and performances (most notably Spacek's), but was a box office disappointment; grossing $22.9 million on a $20 million budget. The film received three nominations at the 59th Academy Awards:Best Actress (for Spacek), Best Supporting Actress (for Harper), and Best Adapted Screenplay. At the 44th Golden Globe Awards, it received a nomination for the Best Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy, with Spacek winning Best Actress.


== Plot ==
The eccentric Magrath sisters—Lenny, Meg, and Rebecca "Babe"—reunite at their family home in Hazlehurst, Mississippi on Lenny's birthday, after Babe shoots and seriously injures her abusive husband, Zackery Botrelle. The three sisters were raised by Old Granddaddy after their mother committed suicide by hanging herself and the family's cat. Lenny is a wallflower who bemoans her shriveled ovary and has lived largely a life of solitude in the familial home caring for Grandddaddy, while Babe married and moved in with the wealthy Zackery. The egocentric Meg is the only of the siblings to have left Hazlehurst, having ended her relationship with Doc Porter and relocated to Los Angeles to pursue a career as a singer, though she has kept her lack of success and a subsequent nervous breakdown a secret from her sisters.
Lenny fears that Babe will be convicted for shooting Zackery and suspects she may be mentally ill, while Meg presumes Babe must have had a valid reason for committing the crime. After Lenny learns that Old Granddaddy has just suffered a stroke in the hospital, Babe is released to her sisters from the county jail. Meg confides in Babe that she believes that Lenny is a virgin spinster, but Babe reveals to her that Lenny briefly had a boyfriend who left her upon finding out about her missing ovary.
Barnette Lloyd, an attorney hired to represent Babe, visits the house and speaks with Meg while Babe listens from a roof tower. Barnette suggests that Babe claim self-defense or temporary insanity, and shows Meg photographs from the hospital showing Babe seeking treatment for Zackery's physical abuse. Later, Babe admits to Meg that, due to her unfulfilling marriage to Zackery, Babe had carried on a romantic affair with a Willie Jay, a teenage African American boy. Upon Zackery's confrontation, Babe shot him with the pistol before preparing herself lemonade.
Meg visits Old Granddaddy at the hospital and regales him with stories about her career in Hollywood, but Lenny is skeptical. Lenny, who feels Meg has always received preferential treatment, vents to Babe, who reminds her that Meg was the one who found their mother's dead body. Meg later admits to Lenny that her stories to Old Granddaddy were fabricated. Lenny becomes increasingly angry with Meg after finding that she carelessly took a bite out of every chocolate in a box of Lenny's birthday candy. When Lenny criticizes her, Meg insinuates she is jealous of her romantic life.
Doc Porter arrives at the house and he and Meg spend the evening together on a lakeshore, drinking bourbon and reminiscing about their last date. Meg eventually admits to Doc Porter that her career in Hollywood has been a failure. Simultaneously, Barnette visits the house and shocks Babe with sexual photographs of her and Willie together which Zachery's sist