Crows and Sparrows (simplified Chinese: 乌鸦与麻雀; traditional Chinese: 烏鴉與麻雀; pinyin: Wūyā yǔ Máquè) is a 1949 Chinese film made by the left-leaning Kunlun Studios on the eve of the Communist victory, directed by Zheng Junli and scripted by Chen Baichen. Notable for its extremely critical view of corrupt Nationalist bureaucrats, the film was made as Chiang Kai-shek's Nanjing-based government was on the verge of collapse, and was not actually finished and released until after the Chinese Civil War had ended.
The film takes place in Shanghai, and it revolves around a group of tenants struggling to prevent themselves from being thrown out onto the street due to a corrupt party official's attempts to sell their apartment building.
The film was the winner of the 1957 Huabiao Film Awards for the “Outstanding Film” category, and starred Zhao Dan, Sun Daolin, Wu Yin and Shangguan Yunzhu in leading roles.


== Plot ==
In the winter of 1948, the Kuomintang of China (KMT) is losing in the Huai Hai Campaign with Chinese Communist Party (CCP) during the Civil War. Kuomintang government officials started to persecute the people more severely to upkeep their luxurious lifestyles. At a Shanghai shikumen house, Mr. Hou, a former Japanese collaborator, now a Section chief at the Kuomintang Ministry of Defense, is planning to sell the house which he seized from the owner Kong Yuwen and then fly to Taiwan.  He appoints his mistress, Yu Xiaoying or so-called Mrs. Hou, to give an ultimatum to the rest of the tenants to move out.
The house is tenanted by three families: Mr. Kong, a proofreader in a newspaper agency, whose son joined the New Fourth Army; Mr. and Mrs. Xiao, foreign goods vendors with their three kids; and a schoolteacher, Mr. Hua, his wife and their daughter Wei Wei. When Mr. Xiao proposes they should band together, others disagree and want to find alternative solutions. Mr. Kong and Mr. Hua try to find a place to stay at their workplaces respectively, while Mr. and Mrs. Xiao hope to invest in black market gold in order to buy the apartment building from Mr. Hou.
However, things don't go as they expected. The employer is unwilling to provide Mr. Kong with accommodation. Mr. Hua is arrested by KMT agents for signing a letter protesting the school administration permitting for police to unjustly arrest its employees. Mr. and Mrs. Xiao found their scheme of wealth accumulating go bad after the gold price rose sharply due to the government's manipulation. What's worse: they're beaten by the crowd who are also waiting to trade yuan   notes for gold at the central bank. Meanwhile, desperate as she is, Mrs. Hua resorts to asking Mr. Hou to bail her husband out of jail. However, Hou only wants to make her his mistress. Infuriated, Mrs. Hua rejects him and rushes home, while her daughter falls desperately ill. With generous help from Mr. Kong and Ah Mei (Mrs. Hou's kind-hearted maid), Wei Wei and Mr. and Mrs. Xiao fully recover from their illness and injuries.
The tenants finally decide not to move out in a showdown with Mr. Hou. Soon, Hou receives a phone call, telling him that the defeated KMT is about to abandon its capital, Nanjing and retreat to Taiwan. Early the next morning, he and his mistress sneak out of the house and prepare to flee to Taiwan. The KMT agents release Mr. Hua while his fellow teachers are executed. As the remaining KMT members all run off from Mainland China, the tenants celebrate Chinese New Year in 1949, promising to improve themselves in the face of the coming new society.


== Cast ==
Wei Heling as Kong Youwen (nicknamed Confucius)
Zhao Dan as Mr. Xiao (nicknamed Little Broadcast)
Wu Yin as Mrs. Xiao
Sun Daolin as Hua Jiezhi
Shangguan Yunzhu as Mrs. Hua
Li Tianji as Hou Yibo
Huang Zongying as Yu Xiaoying (or Mrs. Hou)
Wang Bei as Ah Mei
Wang Lulu as Wei Wei
Xu Weijie as Da Mao
Qiu Huan as Er Mao
Ge Meiqiang as Little Mao


== Introduction of Main Characters ==
Kong Youwen (nicknamed Confucius)An experienced proof-rea