Cujo () is a 1981 horror novel by American writer Stephen King about a rabid Saint Bernard. The novel won the British Fantasy Award in 1982 and was made into a film in 1983. Cujo's name was based on the alias of Willie Wolfe, one of the men responsible for orchestrating Patty Hearst's kidnapping and indoctrination into the Symbionese Liberation Army. King discusses Cujo in On Writing, referring to it as a novel he "barely remembers writing at all." King wrote the book during the height of his struggle with alcohol addiction. King goes on to say he likes the book and wishes he could remember enjoying the good parts as he put them on the page.


== Background ==
According to King, the novel was partly inspired by his trip to a mechanic during the spring of 1977. In a 2006 interview with The Paris Review, King describes how issues with his motorcycle led him to visit an auto shop on the northern outskirts of Bridgton, Maine. He claims his motorcycle died when he arrived at the shop, and moments after, a Saint Bernard emerged from the garage, growling at him and eventually lunging for his hand. Although the mechanic stopped the dog from harming King by hitting the dog's hindquarters with a wrench, King was still startled by the encounter. This incident, as well as a story published in a Portland, Maine, newspaper about a young child who was killed by a Saint Bernard, provided inspiration for the novel. King also owned a dysfunctional Ford Pinto at the time, which is the same car model the novel's protagonist, Donna Trenton, drives to the auto garage where she encounters the rabid Cujo.


== Plot ==
In the summer of 1980, the middle-class Trentons have recently moved to the fictional town of Castle Rock, Maine from New York City with their four-year-old son, Tad. Donna has recently had an affair with a local man named Steve Kemp. After she ends the relationship, Steve spitefully reveals the affair to her husband, Vic. In the midst of this household tension, Vic's advertising agency is failing due to a scandal over a cereal. Vic is forced to travel out of town, leaving Tad and Donna at home alone. 
Blue-collar Joe Camber is a mechanic who abuses his wife, Charity, and their ten-year-old son, Brett. Charity wins a $5,000 (equivalent to $17,000 in 2023) lottery prize, and uses the proceeds to bargain with Joe to allow her to take Brett on a trip to visit Charity's sister in Connecticut and show him the possibility of a better life. Joe acquiesces and secretly plans to take a pleasure trip to Boston with his friend, alcoholic Gary. 
The Cambers' dog Cujo, a large, good-natured Saint Bernard, chases a rabbit in the nearby fields and inserts his head in a small cave. A bat bites him on the nose and infects him with rabies, against which Cujo is not vaccinated. Cujo enters the prodromal phase, becoming lethargic and irritable. After Charity and Brett leave town, Cujo kills Gary and Joe. 
Donna, with Tad, takes their failing Ford Pinto to Joe for repairs. The car breaks down in the Cambers' dooryard, and as Donna attempts to find Joe, Cujo attacks her. She gets back into the car but becomes trapped when Cujo continues to attack them. The interior of the car becomes increasingly hot in the summer sun. During one escape attempt, Donna is bitten in the stomach and leg, but manages to escape back into the car. Tad becomes catatonic with fear and begins to have seizures.
Steve Kemp goes to the Trenton home to attack Donna, then ransacks it when he finds it empty. Vic returns to Castle Rock after failed attempts to contact Donna. The police suspect Steve of kidnapping Donna and Tad, and also send Sheriff George Bannerman out to the Cambers' house, but Cujo kills him. Donna, after witnessing the attack and realizing Tad is in danger of dying of dehydration, battles the weakened Cujo and kills him with a baseball bat. Vic arrives as the fight ends but Tad has already died from dehydration and heatstroke. A veterinarian removes Cujo's head for a bi