The Cure is the twelfth studio album by English rock band of the same name, released on 25 June 2004 by Geffen Records. The album was entirely co-produced by American producer Ross Robinson and spawned the single "The End of the World".


== Production and content ==
The Cure was co-produced by Cure frontman Robert Smith and Ross Robinson. Robinson had previously worked with heavy rock bands such as Korn, Limp Bizkit, Slipknot, At the Drive-In, Glassjaw and the Blood Brothers. This may have contributed to the songs on the album being heavier than previous material by the band. Smith described the record as "Cure heavy", as opposed to "new-metal heavy".
Robinson said The Cure's usual process was to create the first music and Smith would later bring the lyrics. He said he encourage to Smith write the lyrics first instead. That way the rest of the band could put the feeling expressed into the music they played.
Twenty songs were created during the recording sessions. However, Robinson suggest a different sequencing; Smith explained:

"We did twenty songs in total. There's fifteen being released in this first wave, and three of the five being left off are the most depressing songs we've ever done. Ross Robinson is beside himself with anguish that I've left them off the album. The running order that Ross came up with was an eight-song album of all the big, dark, dismal songs. Then I put together my running order and we played them back-to-back, and I just preferred mine. The fact is, I make the decisions."
According to the liner notes, the entire album was recorded live in the studio. Smith said the official track listing includes the closing "Going Nowhere", which was excluded from North American pressings.
The artwork was designed by Smith's nephews and nieces: children who were unaware that their drawings were to be put on the album. The drawings were supposed to be of a 'good dream' and a 'bad dream' from each niece and nephew. Smith compiled the best drawings on the album and then produced it.


== Promotion ==
The Cure is the first record by the band released by producer Ross Robinson's I Am label, with whom the Cure signed a three-album deal. To promote the album, the band appeared at several festivals in Europe and the United States in spring 2004. They also premièred the song "The End of the World" on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno. In the summer of 2004, the band launched the Curiosa festival, where they performed shows across the United States with a number of bands who have been inspired by the Cure, including Mogwai, Interpol and Muse. The band then performed in Mexico, followed by additional festivals and televised performances in Europe, culminating with the end of 2004. By the end of the year, every song from The Cure had been performed live by the band.


== Release ==
The Cure was first released in Japan on 25 June 2004. It was then released in the UK and Europe on 28 June and then in the US the day after. It debuted at No. 7 in the United States, selling 91,000 copies in its first week of release, and No. 8 in the United Kingdom.
Initial pressings included a bonus DVD containing a documentary of the conception of three songs from the album, titled Making 'The Cure'.
Demos of three songs recorded during the album's sessions, titled "A Boy I Never Knew", "Please Come Home" and "Strum", have leaked as MP3 files. 


== Reception ==

Critical response to The Cure has been generally positive. Metacritic calculated the weighted average score given to The Cure at 75 out of 100. Adam Sweeting of The Guardian described it as a "masterful performance all round", highlighting the songs "The End of the World", "Going Nowhere", "Anniversary" and "The Promise". Rob Fitzpatrick of NME described it as "startling from the first listen. " Rob Sheffield of Rolling Stone wrote "it's the grooviest thing, it's a perfect dream", and pointed out the album's highlights as being "Before Three", "Lost" and "(I Don't Know What's Going) On". 