The Omen is a media franchise, featuring several  supernatural horror films, a television series, and numerous novels. It began in 1976 with the film The Omen, and centers on Damien Thorn, a child born of Satan and adopted by Robert and Katherine Thorn as a baby. As he grows up, it becomes clear to the Thorns that Damien is the Antichrist, but he destroys each of his relatives so that he can obtain sole ownership of the family's wealth. By the time he is a 32 year old adult, and in control of the family corporation, he begins a career in politics with the ultimate goal of eventually becoming President.


== Films ==

The Omen is the original film in the series, directed by Richard Donner and written by David Seltzer. The story introduces Robert Thorn, the American Ambassador in Italy who adopts the newborn Damien to replace the newborn that he has been told was stillborn. When Damien reaches the age of five as Robert is transferred to Britain, strange events unfold, beginning with the boy's nanny committing suicide during his birthday party. Soon afterward Robert encounters Father Brennan, a Catholic priest who was present at Damien's birth, who attempts to warn him that the child would eventually kill him and his wife; Brennan soon dies, impaled by a falling church spire. Only after Robert's wife Katherine ends up hospitalized with a miscarriage does he come to believe Brennan; Robert and a photographer named Jennings then travel to Rome, where they learn that Damien is the Antichrist, and that the death of Robert's child was arranged so the Antichrist child could be raised by a politician. In the meantime, Katherine Thorn is murdered by Mrs. Baylock, Damien's second nanny, who in reality is a member of the Satanists who arranged Damien's upbringing, and will kill in order to suppress any threat to him. Arriving in Megiddo to find Bugenhagen, an exorcist and archaeologist, Robert is presented with the only means to kill Damien: the Seven Daggers of Megiddo. Though he initially refuses, it takes both the death of Jennings and discovering the Mark of the Beast on Damien's head to convince Robert to go through with it. But despite killing Mrs. Baylock after a struggle, Robert is killed by the authorities before he can kill Damien. 
In the second film, Damien - Omen II, Damien is now living in the care of his uncle, wealthy industrialist Richard Thorn. The film starts with Bugenhagen attempting to send Richard a package containing the seven Daggers of Meggido, but he and his friend Morris end up being buried alive in an archaeological ruins in Jerusalem. The audience is then introduced to Richard's son Mark and his second wife Ann. Now almost a teenager, Damien attends military school alongside Mark, while the dark forces protecting him manifest in the form of a raven, killing Richard's aunt Marion, Jennings's friend Joan Hart, and Thorn Industries senior executive Bill Atherton. Atherton's death is beneficial for ambitious Thorn executive Paul Buher, another member of the Satanist group Baylock was part of. Another member, Sgt. Daniel Neff, becomes Damien's platoon leader at the academy and guides Damien to learn his true nature by advising him to read the Book of Revelation. Though fearful of it at first, unconsciously killing Dr. David Pasarian and a medical physician who tested his blood, Damien comes to accept his destiny as he begins to consciously kill anyone who stands in his way, including his cousin Mark and Dr. Charles Warren. Though Richard eventually accepted the truth upon receiving the Daggers of Megiddo from Bugenhagen's package, he is murdered by Ann who reveals she is also one of the Satanists. Damien then kills her too, despite her being one of his disciples.
The third film, The Final Conflict, follows the adult Damien, now head of his uncle's company and arranging his position as American Ambassador in Britain to prevent the Second Coming—which would gradually weaken his powers—by having his followers slaughte