Alejandro "Álex" de la Iglesia Mendoza (born 4 December 1965) is a Spanish film director, screenwriter, producer and former comic book artist.
De la Iglesia's films combine grotesque and very dark elements such as death and murder: most of his works are considered dark comedies, but are also often considered to have horror and/or drama elements. All his films, with the notable exceptions of The Last Circus (2010) and As Luck Would Have It (2011), were written together with Jorge Guerricaechevarría.


== Biography ==
Studies and early career
With a degree in philosophy from the University of Deusto, De la Iglesia began drawing comics in fanzines such as No, el fanzine maldito and Metacrilato, as well as in magazines such as Trokola, Burdinjaun and La Ría del Ocio. De la Iglesia always acknowledges Alex Raymond (creator of Flash Gordon) and Stan Lee (founder of Marvel Comics and co-creator of Spider-Man and The Hulk) as his main inspiration as a comics artist.
It was also around this time, between 1986 and 1989, when he founded in Bilbao one of the first role-game clubs in Spain: Los Pelotas.
In his debut in the film industry, De la Iglesia was art director in the short film Mamá (1988), by Pablo Berger, and again in Enrique Urbizu’s feature Todo por la pasta (Anything for Bread (1991). De la Iglesia had already collaborated with Enrique Urbizu and Joaquín Trincado designing the poster for their first film, Tu novia está loca (1988).
Álex de la Iglesia’s first short film, Mirindas asesinas (1991), got the attention of Pedro Almodóvar, whose production company, El Deseo, collaborated in De la Iglesia's first feature film, Acción mutante (the sci-fi actioner) (1993).
El día de la Bestia
De la Iglesia’s next movie would establish him as one of the most important directors of Spanish cinema: El día de la Bestia (1995), written with Jorge Guerricaechevarría, co-screenwriter in most of Álex de la Iglesia’s films since then. Released internationally as “The day of the Beast”, the film won six Goya awards, including the award for Best Director. This piece turned Santiago Segura into one of Spain's best-known actors and brought back actress Terele Pávez, her being a regular in his movies until her demise in 2017.
Maverick director
Subsequently, De la Iglesia has been combining productions aimed at an international audience, with others closer to the Spanish cultural taste, but all displaying his sublimely witted, often dark, and sometimes even grotesque, sense of humor. Many veteran Spanish actors and actresses have worked under his direction, from Carmen Maura to María Asquerino, as well as several Hollywood stars like Rosie Pérez, Elijah Wood, John Hurt or Salma Hayek.
He directed the performances of Javier Bardem, Rosie Pérez and James Gandolfini in Perdita Durango (1997); Santiago Segura and El Gran Wyoming in Muertos de risa (“Dying of Laughter”, 1999); Carmen Maura, Manuel Tejada and Paca Gabaldón in La comunidad (“Common Wealth”, 2000); Sancho Gracia, Ángel de Andrés López and Eusebio Poncela in 800 balas (“800 Bullets”, 2002); Guillermo Toledo, Mónica Cervera and Kira Miró in Crimen ferpecto (“Ferpect Crime”, 2004); and Elijah Wood, Leonor Watling and John Hurt in Los crímenes de Oxford (“The Oxford Murders”, 2007).
Balada triste de trompeta
His film, Balada triste de trompeta (“The Last Circus”, 2010) was awarded two prizes at the 67th Venice International Film Festival, namely, an Osella for Best Screenplay and the Silver Lion for Best Direction. It was also nominated for fifteen Goya awards in 2011, including Best Director, Best Film And Best Original Screenplay. It got to receive the awards for Best Makeup and Best Special Effects. The New York Times praised the movie on a raving piece when the film opened theatrically in the US.
Box Office Hits: Las brujas de Zugarramurdi and Perfectos desconocidos
In 2011, De la Iglesia released La chispa de la vida (“As Luck Would Have It”), starring José Mota and Salma Hayek, and shot in 