"Dead Man on Campus" is the eighth episode of the fifth season of the American series The Vampire Diaries and the series' 97th episode overall. "Dead Man on Campus" was originally aired on November 21, 2013, on The CW. The episode was written by Brian Young and Neil Reynolds and directed by Rob Hardy.


== Plot ==
Elena (Nina Dobrev) and Caroline (Candice Accola) plan a welcome back party for Bonnie (Kat Graham). Bonnie still hasn't told anyone what being an anchor means and she tries to hide the fact that every supernatural being has to pass through her when they die. Elena wants to invite Damon (Ian Somerhalder) and Stefan (Paul Wesley) to the party despite Caroline's wish for Damon not to come and Stefan not being in the mood to party after getting his memories back.
Wes (Rick Cosnett) continues his experiments on Jesse (Kendrick Sampson) who is now a vampire. Wes transfuses him blood but while he does it, Jesse breaks his shackles and attacks Wes. Jesse does not understand what is going on, so he locks up Wes at his laboratory and goes back to his apartment where he calls Caroline for help. Caroline gets there in time to stop Jesse from killing Aaron (Shaun Sipos) who had just entered his room and was asking him what happened and who made him a vampire.
During the party, Elena sends Damon to find out why Wes is doing these experiments despite Caroline's fears that Damon will kill Wes. Damon injects Wes with different deadly viruses to make him talk and Wes finally admits that he is trying to make a new kind of vampire that will not be a threat to humans because they will crave vampire blood instead of human blood. At the same time, at the party Jesse bites Caroline and then leaves to ask Wes what he did to him.
When Jesse arrives at the laboratory he attacks Damon. Damon cannot escape but Elena arrives and kills Jesse before he kills Damon. Caroline is upset with what Elena did even though Elena explains to Caroline that she could not have done anything else since Jesse was bent on killing Damon. After this, Elena and Caroline return to their room and Damon stays behind to deal with Wes.
In the meantime, back at Mystic Falls, Stefan is at the bar drinking and trying to forget his traumatic memories of being locked in the safe, drowning over and over, while Katherine is in conversation with Matt (Zach Roerig). Matt tells her about the spirit that is inside him and he asks her to translate what the spirit said on the video Matt secretly made. Katherine recognizes the knife Matt has and agrees to help him. She calls Nadia (Olga Fonda) for help and she also asks Stefan for his.
Nadia arrives asking why Katherine called her and Katherine explains she needs her help to summon the spirit inside Matt. Nadia does so and Katherine asks why he is in Mystic Falls. The spirit of Gregor says that he is there because he wants to kill Silas but since Silas is already dead Katherine insists that he tell her the real reason and she also shows him that she has the knife. Gregor finally admits that his orders are to kill Katherine. Upon hearing this, Katherine stabs Matt's body with the knife. Stefan worries about Matt but Katherine reassures him that Matt will be totally fine; Gregor on the other hand, not so much since the knife is the only thing that can truly kill a traveler.
When everything with Gregor is over, Stefan has a new series of flashbacks and Katherine helps him deal with them. She manages to help and Stefan is calm again. Later, he finds a note from Katherine addressed to Nadia telling her that she is going to kill herself since she cannot fight her new enemy: time. Katherine leaps from the top of the clock tower, but Stefan arrives in time and catches her, saving her from death.
Meanwhile, Bonnie can no longer hide what is happening to her when she doubles over screaming in front of Jeremy (Steven R. McQueen) because a deceased supernatural spirit passes through her to the other side. He asks her what is going on and she tell