Death Wish II  is a 1982 American vigilante action-thriller film directed and co-edited by Michael Winner. It is the first of four sequels to the 1974 film Death Wish. It is the second installment in the Death Wish film series. In the story, architect Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) moves to Los Angeles with his daughter (Robin Sherwood).  After his daughter is murdered at the hands of several gang members, Kersey once again chooses to become a vigilante. Unlike the original, in which he hunts down every criminal he encounters, Kersey only pursues his family's attackers. The sequel makes a complete breakaway from the Brian Garfield novels Death Wish and Death Sentence, redefining the Paul Kersey character.  It was succeeded by Death Wish 3.
The sequel was produced by Cannon Films, which had purchased the rights to the Death Wish concept from Dino De Laurentiis. Cannon executive Menahem Golan planned to direct the film, but Winner returned on Bronson's insistence. The soundtrack was composed by guitarist Jimmy Page. Death Wish II was released in the United States in February 1982 by Filmways Pictures. Like the original, Columbia Pictures handled the international release. Paramount Pictures, via Trifecta Entertainment & Media, handles the television rights. It earned $29 million during its domestic theatrical run.


== Plot ==
Roughly eight years since the events of the first film, Paul Kersey has managed to recover from his shattered life and moved on and is now living in Los Angeles and working as a freelance architect. One of his clients is a close friend who owns a radio station for whom he is designing a new building and he is dating one of its reporters, Geri Nichols. They go to pick up Paul's daughter, Carol, from the mental hospital. They spend the afternoon at a fairground, where Paul's wallet is stolen by a gang, consisting of Nirvana, Punkcut, Stomper, Cutter, and Jiver. 
The gang splits up when Paul chases them. He pursues Jiver, whom he corners in an alley. When Jiver says that he does not have the wallet, Paul lets him go. The gang find Paul's home address in his wallet and break into his house. They restrain Rosario, Paul's housekeeper, and begin taking turns raping her. When Paul arrives home with his daughter, he is beaten unconscious. Rosario tries to call the police, but Nirvana kills her with his crowbar. They kidnap Carol and take her to their hideout, where a gang member rapes her. Carol attempts to escape by running through a plate-glass window, falls onto an iron fence, and dies. Paul later refuses to help the police identify the muggers. 
After Carol's funeral, he takes his handgun to a low-rent inner-city hotel as a base of operations. The next evening, he follows Stomper into an abandoned building as a drug deal is about to be made. Paul shoots a dealer and orders the others out before killing Stomper. The following night, he hears screams from a couple being assaulted in a parking garage by four muggers, which includes Jiver. Paul kills two rapists and wounds Jiver. Paul then follows Jiver's blood trail into an abandoned warehouse and kills him.
The LAPD suspect that the murders are the work of a vigilante and ask the NYPD for guidance. NYPD Detective Frank Ochoa suspects it may be Paul again, and is sent to assist with the case. Ochoa understands that Paul, when caught, will reveal that he was released without being charged for killing the ten muggers in New York City. Ochoa enters Geri's apartment and tells her about Paul's previous vigilante killing spree in New York. After Paul returns to his house, Geri confronts him, but he denies everything. 
Ochoa follows Paul, who is tailing the three remaining gang members. He follows them to an abandoned park, where an arms and drug deal is underway. A sniper scouts Paul and attempts to kill him. Ochoa warns Paul and fatally shoots the sniper. Ochoa is mortally wounded by Nirvana, and Paul wounds Punkcut and kills Cutter and another dealer. The arms dealer t