Death Wish V: The Face of Death is a 1994 American vigilante action-thriller film and the fifth and final installment in the Death Wish film series, written and directed by Allan A. Goldstein. Charles Bronson reprises his role in both his final theatrical starring role and his final appearance as the character Paul Kersey. In the film, Kersey tries to protect his girlfriend, Olivia Regent (Lesley-Anne Down) from brutal mobsters that are threatening her fashion business.


== Plot ==
Seven years after Detective Sid Reiner discovered he was the vigilante, Paul Kersey has returned to New York City in the witness protection program, having assumed the name Paul Stewart. He is invited by his girlfriend, Olivia Regent, to a fashion show. Backstage, mobster Tommy O'Shea and his goons begin to muscle in. Tommy threatens Olivia, who is his ex-wife and mother to their daughter, Chelsea. 
When Paul discovers bruises on Olivia's wrist, she informs Paul of her ex-husband's behavior. Paul confronts Tommy, but Tommy's henchman Chicki Paconi threatens Paul with a revolver. The confrontation ends with the arrival of Chelsea. D.A. Brian Hoyle and his associate NYPD detective Lt. Hector Vasquez visit Paul's home. He informs them about Tommy O'Shea. Hoyle says they have been trying to nab Tommy for years, and he wants Olivia to testify. 
That night at a restaurant, Paul proposes to Olivia, who accepts. Olivia excuses herself to the bathroom and is attacked by Tommy's associate, Freddie "Flakes" Garrity. Flakes bashes her head against a mirror, disfiguring her. Freddie escapes, although Paul gets a look at him. Later, at the hospital, Paul is told that even if Olivia gets reconstructive surgery, her face will never be the same. While at the hospital, he meets Lt. Mickey King and his partner Janice Omori, who are working on the O'Shea's case. 
During a failed bugging mission against the mob, both O'Shea associate Albert and Janice are killed, getting struck by Freddie's car. At the hospital, Lt. King warns Kersey not to go back to his old ways, saying that he has been working on the case for 16 years. Unimpressed, Kersey says that is a long time to be failing. Freddie and his henchmen, pretending to be the cops sent to protect Olivia, attack Paul and Olivia at her apartment. Freddie shoots Olivia in the back, killing her as the couple tries to escape. Paul jumps from the roof of his apartment, where he lands in a pile of trash bags, and is retrieved by the police. Tommy is cleared of involvement in Olivia's death and seeks custody of their daughter. Paul assaults Tommy, but his right-hand man Sal leaves him unconscious.
Paul plans to return to his vigilante methods and is assisted by Hoyle, who learns his department has been corrupted by Tommy. Paul poisons Chicki with cyanide disguised as sugar in a cannoli. He then kills Freddie with a remote-controlled explosive soccer ball. Tommy finds out from an informant that Paul is the vigilante killer, known for series of slayings and will be going after him for killing Olivia. The informant, revealed to be Vasquez, tries to kill Paul himself. Paul gets the upper hand and kills him. 
Hoyle arrives and finds that Tommy wants both him and Paul dead. Hoyle tells Paul he must never see him again, and Paul agrees. Using Chelsea as a bait, Tommy puts three henchmen named Frankie, Mickey and Angel, loosely implied to be the same three thugs who murdered Paul's wife and raped his daughter twenty years earlier, to guard the dress factory. Once Paul gets inside, he uses a forklift as a bait to trick the henchmen. They manage to destroy it, but Paul appears behind them and shoots Angel's shotgun away from his hands, but shoots both Frankie and Mickey dead. 
After Paul makes Angel tell him where Chelsea is, he wraps Angel in plastic wrapper. Meanwhile, Chelsea makes a getaway and Sal and Tommy go after her, but Tommy sends Sal to go after Paul. While searching for Paul, Sal accidentally shoots Angel to death. After S