The Deep End of the Ocean is a 1999 American drama film directed by Ulu Grosbard, and starring Michelle Pfeiffer, Treat Williams, Jonathan Jackson, John Kapelos, and Whoopi Goldberg. It is based on the 1996 novel of the same name by Jacquelyn Mitchard, a bestseller that was the first novel selected by Oprah Winfrey to be discussed on Oprah's Book Club in 1996. The film tells the story of a family's reaction when Ben, the youngest son, is kidnapped and then found nine years later, living in the same town where his family had just moved. The film was released in theaters on March 12, 1999 by Columbia Pictures, and was a box-office flop, grossing $28 million worldwide.


== Plot ==
During her high school reunion in a crowded hotel lobby, Beth Cappadora's 3-year-old son Ben vanishes. Police are called to the scene as a frantic search begins but it is unsuccessful, and Beth experiences a nervous breakdown. Unable to cope with her devastation, she unintentionally neglects her other two children, Vincent and Kerry.
After nine years, the Cappadora family has seemingly accepted that Ben has gone forever, when a familiar-looking boy turns up at their new house offering to mow their lawn. He introduces himself as Sam Karras, but Beth becomes convinced that he is Ben. She alerts the police and an investigation begins.
Beth discovers Ben was kidnapped at the reunion by Cecil Lockhart, a mentally unstable woman who was an old classmate of Beth's. She brought Ben up as her own child until she took her own life five years later. Ben, now Sam, had since been living with Cecil's husband George who adopted Sam after they met, believing the child was hers.
Sam is returned to the Cappadora family but the attempted reintegration produces painful results for everyone, so Beth and her husband Pat eventually decide to return him to his adoptive father. Their marriage suffers as a result over time and they begin sleeping in separate beds.
One night, Vincent, now a troubled teenager who is distant from his parents, leaves the house during the night and ends up in jail after a drunk driving incident. Beth and Pat discuss his erratic behavior with Candace "Candy" Bliss, a detective in Ben's case who became a family friend, and Candy reassures Beth that Vincent loves her. They eventually reconcile their relationship.
Sam visits Vincent in jail and reveals he has remembered something from before his abduction; he was playing hide and seek with Vincent and got stuck in a trunk, but Vincent found him, which made him feel safe. Sam calls him his brother and asks if they can be friends.
Pat later bails Vincent out of jail and, one night, finds him playing basketball outside with Sam. Vincent, who has carried guilt for not watching Ben at the reunion, letting go of his hand and telling him to get lost, is forgiven by Sam. Sam tells him he has decided to move back to live with the Cappadoras. They play a game of basketball, stating the loser has to carry Sam's remarkably heavy suitcase into the house. Beth and Pat, reconciled, watch happily from the living room window.


== Cast ==
Michelle Pfeiffer as Beth Cappadora
Treat Williams as Pat Cappadora
Whoopi Goldberg as Detective Candace "Candy" Bliss
Jonathan Jackson as Vincent Cappadora – Age 16
Cory Buck as Vincent Cappadora – Age 7
Ryan Merriman as Benjamin Cappadora/Sam Karras – Age 12
Michael McElroy as Benjamin Cappadora – Age 3
Alexa Vega as Kerry Cappadora – Age 9
Michael McGrady as Jimmy Daugherty
Brenda Strong as Ellen, Beth's high school classmate
Tony Musante as Grandpa Angelo Cappadora
Rose Gregorio as Grandma Rosie Cappadora
John Kapelos as George Karras, Cecilia's husband
Lucinda Jenney as Laurie
John Roselius as Chief Bastokovich
Robert Cicchini as Uncle Joey


== Production ==
According to a small behind-the-scenes booklet featured on the DVD release, the film began production on October 27, 1997 and was predominantly shot in Los Angeles.  Oprah Winfrey was considered for the role of Det. Candace "