Deep Rising is a 1998 American action  horror film written and directed by Stephen Sommers and starring Treat Williams, Famke Janssen and Anthony Heald. It was distributed by Hollywood Pictures and Cinergi Pictures and released on January 30, 1998. While the film was a critical and box office failure, it has been regarded as a cult classic.


== Plot ==
Amidst a storm, Captain John Finnegan and his crew, Joey Pantucci, and Leila are hired by mercenaries Hanover, Mulligan, Mason, Billy, T-Ray, Mamooli, and Vivo to pilot their boat across the South China Sea to an undisclosed rendezvous point. Meanwhile, the Argonautica, a luxury cruise ship built and owned by Simon Canton, is undertaking its maiden voyage when a saboteur disables its navigation and communication systems. Something rises from beneath and rams the vessel, leaving it dead in the water, and the passengers are slaughtered by monstrous creatures.
Finnegan's boat collides with a speedboat shaken loose from the Argonautica. The mercenaries take over and reveal they intend to rob the Argonautica's passengers and vault, before sinking the ship with torpedoes stowed aboard the boat. The group boards the ship, leaving Leila and Billy behind to repair the boat, where they are both killed by the creatures. The group reaches the ballroom only to find blood and no sign of the passengers. Finnegan and Joey go to the ship's workshop to scavenge parts to repair the boat. Meanwhile, T-Ray goes off to investigate unusual noises and is torn to shreds by the creatures. Mamooli contacts Hanover but is dragged off by the creatures, forcing Finnegan and Joey to flee. They run into Trillian, a passenger who was imprisoned for stealing. Meanwhile, Hanover's group reaches the vault and Vivo opens it, only to be mistakenly killed by Canton, who was hiding inside the vault along with Captain Atherton and three other passengers. Mason and Mulligan panic and accidentally kill the passengers.
Canton and Atherton explain to the mercenaries that the ship has been attacked by creatures that killed everyone else on board. Canton is found to be the saboteur, having hired the mercenaries to sink the unprofitable ship so that he could collect on the insurance. The group is attacked by the creatures that ate Atherton. Canton theorizes that the creatures are an evolution of the Ottoia, which drain their victims of their bodily fluids and then eject the blooded carcasses. The survivors flee, but Mason is grabbed by a creature and kills himself by detonating a grenade. Mulligan elects to stay behind in the crew's galley until a rescue party can arrive. While arguing with the others as the creature slips in through the range hood, Mulligan scares it off with fire but is ambushed and devoured by another.
In a running battle, the survivors find themselves being herded towards the bow of the ship and find a "feeding ground" full of blooded skeletal remains. Attempting to rid himself of any witnesses to his insurance scam, Canton misleads the others to the bow while he moves towards an exit route. The creatures break through the hull, flooding the lower decks and separating the survivors. Hanover wounds Joey in an attempt to slow the creatures, but Joey escapes. Joey later finds Hanover being devoured by a creature. As an act of mercy, he leaves Hanover a gun. However, Hanover wastes his only shot trying to kill Joey and is consumed.
Finnegan and Trillian spot an island and return to Finnegan's boat, but—having lost the engine parts—find it useless as a means of escape. Joey returns and begins improvised repairs, and Finnegan sets the boat's autopilot to crash into the Argonautica and detonate the torpedoes. Trillian returns to the cruise ship and locates a jet ski with the fuel they can use to reach the island, but Canton arrives armed with a flare gun. Canton asks Trillian to join him or hand over the keys, but she flees and he chases her. Finnegan pursues Canton to the ballroom on the main deck, saving Tril