Delta of Venus is a 1994 American erotic drama film directed by Zalman King and starring Audie England, Costas Mandylor, and Marek Vašut. It is inspired by the posthumously published 1977 short story collection Delta of Venus by Anaïs Nin. NC-17 and R-rated versions of the film exist; the NC-17 rating is due to explicit sex. The DVD release contains both versions of the film. The film was released in June 1995 in the United States.


== Plot ==
Set in Paris, France, in 1940 in the early days of World War II before the German invasion and conquest of France, Elena Martin (Audie England) is a young American writer struggling to get by in Paris while searching for inspiration for her first novel. Elena meets and has a sordid affair with a fellow American expatriate named  Lawrence Walters (Costas Mandylor). With some encouragement from her friends, her lover, and her publisher, Elena gets involved in nude modeling and progresses onward through many other forms of voyeuristic and participatory sexual adventures as she further researches for inspiration to write her book and become an author of erotic fiction.


== Cast ==
Audie England as Elena Martin
Costas Mandylor as Lawrence Walters
Eric Da Silva as Marcel
Raven Snow as Leila
Rory Campbell as Miguel
Emma Louise Moore as Ariel
Bernard Zette as Donald (as Zette)
Marek Vasut as Luc
Markéta Hrubesová as Bijou
Daniel Leza as Pierre
Stephen Halbert as Harry
Dale Wyatt as Millicent
Jirí Ded as Priest
Valérie Zawadská as Landlady
James Donahower as Bandleader
Robert Davi as The Collector
Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje as The Clairvoyant (as Wale)
Clive Revill as Radio Announcer (voice)
Roberta Hanley as Opium Den Proprietor


== Background ==
The novel by Anaïs Nin on which the film is based is not autobiographical, nor does it have a frame narrative. The film imposes a frame-narrative about a "Nin-like" American who begins an affair with another expatriate American in pre–World War II Paris, and who writes erotic stories that represent her fantasies. Some of these stories/fantasies, based on those of Nin, are explored on-screen.


== References ==


== External links ==
Delta of Venus at IMDb