Deuce Bigalow: European Gigolo is a 2005 American crime sex comedy film directed by Mike Bigelow from a screenplay by Rob Schneider, David Garrett, and Jason Wardand. The film is the sequel to Deuce Bigalow: Male Gigolo (1999) and stars Schneider (reprising his role from the first film), Eddie Griffin, Til Schweiger, and Jeroen Krabbé. The plot involves male prostitute Deuce Bigalow visiting his former pimp T.J. in Amsterdam, and looking for a murderer who is killing the greatest "man-whores" of Europe.
Deuce Bigalow: European Gigolo was released in the United States on August 12, 2005, by Sony Pictures Releasing. The film received worse reviews and earned less money than its predecessor, grossing over $45 million worldwide against a $22 million budget. It was also nominated for Worst Picture at the 26th Golden Raspberry Awards, while Schneider won Worst Actor.


== Plot ==
Former gigolo Deuce Bigalow, recently widowed after his wife Kate is killed in a shark attack, is invited by his former pimp T.J. to Amsterdam. There, he learns that European gigolos are being murdered by a "Man-whore Killer".
Deuce finds German gigolo Heinz Hummer asleep in an alley behind a coffee shop; believing he is high, Deuce takes him to T.J.'s boat. After realizing Hummer is dead, T.J. prepares to dump the body in the river but decides to confirm Hummer's reputation of being well-endowed by examining Hummer's penis; T.J. is photographed during the act and becomes the primary homicide suspect. Deuce is apprehended and interviewed by Gaspar Voorsboch, a police inspector.
When Deuce is released, T.J., now in disguise, convinces Deuce to find the killer by becoming a gigolo again. Former gigolo Antoine gives Deuce a client list but is murdered; T.J. is again photographed at the scene. Deuce and T.J. visit the first client on the list, and while Deuce distracts the woman, T.J. discovers lipstick that matches the kind found on the dead gigolos. Deuce gives Gaspar the lipstick, who dismisses it.
Deuce meets Gaspar's niece, Eva, who suffers from extreme obsessive–compulsive disorder. Deuce continues to investigate different women from Antoine's list including Lily, who speaks through an electrolarynx after a laryngectomy, and Svetlana, who has a penis for a nose after being raised in Chernobyl. Deuce and T.J. infiltrate the European gigolo office, where the Man-whore Killer murders another gigolo; T.J. is arrested when he is caught at the scene again.
Deuce visits Eva's apartment and discovers items used by the Man-whore Killer. Deuce confides his suspicions to Gaspar but is again dismissed. However, Gaspar reveals to Eva that he is the Man-whore Killer; he locks her up and prepares to frame her. An unsuspecting Deuce then rides with Gaspar to the "Man-Whore Awards" ceremony under the guise of protecting the gigolos.
Eva escapes and tries to warn Deuce. However, Gaspar holds Deuce at gunpoint and reveals he was once a hopeful gigolo who was humiliated when another gigolo had sex with his fiancé; Gaspar was so distraught he accidentally injured himself with a penis pump. Gaspar reveals that he plans to kill all the European gigolos with a bomb.
Deuce evacuates the building and engages in a sword fight with Gaspar, during which he mentions non-sexual romantic ways of pleasing a woman; his words move the crowd. Gaspar defeats Deuce, but before he can detonate the bomb, Lily and Svetlana distract Gaspar; Deuce gains control of the detonator and is awarded the "Golden Boner" for his bravery. When he kisses Eva, Deuce accidentally sets off the bomb, but no one is injured. Deuce and Eva pick up a newly freed T.J., who tells them that he is entering a brand-new market: homosexual prostitution.
The postscript reveals that T.J. became a rapper; he made no records and was shot several times. Deuce and Eva got married and are expecting twins. Gaspar became a gigolo in prison. Svetlana married a man with a vagina for a face, and Kate's prosthetic leg is turned into a b