The Devil's Advocate (marketed as Devil's Advocate) is a 1997 American supernatural horror film directed by Taylor Hackford, written by Jonathan Lemkin and Tony Gilroy, and starring Keanu Reeves, Al Pacino, and Charlize Theron. Based on Andrew Neiderman's 1990 novel of the same name, it is about a gifted young Florida lawyer invited to work for a major New York City law firm. As his wife becomes haunted by frightening visions, the lawyer slowly realizes the firm's owner, John Milton, is in fact the Devil.
The name John Milton is one of several allusions to Paradise Lost, as well as Dante Alighieri's Inferno, and the legend of Faust. An adaptation of Neiderman's novel went into a development hell during the 1990s, with Hackford gaining control of the production. Filming took place around New York City and Florida.
The Devil's Advocate received mixed reviews, with critics crediting it for entertainment value and Pacino's performance. It grossed over $153 million at the box office and won the Saturn Award for Best Horror Film. It also became the subject of the copyright lawsuit Hart v. Warner Bros., Inc. for its visual art.


== Plot ==
Kevin Lomax is a Gainesville, Florida defense attorney who has never lost a case. While defending schoolteacher Lloyd Gettys against a charge of child molestation, he realizes his client is guilty. Nonetheless, Kevin proceeds with his defense, destroying the victim's credibility through a harsh cross-examination, and securing a "not guilty" verdict.
A New York City law firm asks Kevin to assist a jury selection. After the jury delivers a not guilty verdict, the head of the firm, John Milton, offers Kevin a job, which Kevin accepts.  He and his wife Mary Ann move to Manhattan. Kevin is soon working long hours, neglecting Mary Ann. Kevin's fundamentalist mother Alice, who never had sex except to conceive Kevin, urges the couple to move back to Florida after meeting Milton. Kevin refuses.
Kevin is assigned to represent billionaire Alex Cullen, accused of murdering his wife, his stepson, and a maid.  As a result, Kevin sees even less of Mary Ann, and begins to fantasize about his co-worker, Christabella. Meanwhile Mary Ann has visions of the partners' wives becoming demonic, and has a nightmare about a baby playing with her removed ovaries. After a doctor declares her infertile, she begs Kevin to return them to Gainesville, but he refuses. Milton suggests Kevin step down from the trial to care for Mary Ann, but Kevin says he will resent her for costing him the case.
Eddie Barzoon, the firm's managing partner, discovers Kevin's name on the firm's charter and believes Kevin covets his job.  Eddie threatens to inform the United States Attorney's office of the firm's dubious activities. Kevin tells Milton.  Though Milton seems to dismiss Kevin's concerns, Eddie is beaten to death in Central Park.
Preparing Melissa Black, Alex Cullen's secretary, to testify, Kevin realizes she is lying to give Cullen a false alibi. He tells Milton he thinks Alex is guilty, but Milton offers to back him regardless.  Kevin proceeds, winning an acquittal with Melissa's perjured testimony. Afterwards, Kevin finds Mary Ann covered with a blanket in a nearby church. She claims Milton raped her that day, and shows Kevin her body, covered with cuts and scratches. Knowing Milton was in court with him, Kevin believes she must have injured herself, and commits her to a mental institution. 
U.S. Justice Department agent Mitch Weaver warns Kevin that Milton is corrupt and also reveals that Gettys, (whom Kevin got acquitted in Florida) has now been arrested for killing a little girl. Moments later, Weaver is struck by a car and killed. At the same time, while attending Eddie's funeral service, Milton sticks his finger into holy water, which makes it boil.
Kevin, his mother Alice, and his case manager Pam Garrety, visit Mary Ann at the institution. Seeing Pam as a demon, Mary Ann hits her, barricades the room, and commits suicide. Alice 