Digimon: The Movie is a 2000 animated film adaptation produced by Saban Entertainment and distributed by 20th Century Fox as part of the Digimon franchise. The film used footage from the short films Digimon Adventure (1999), Digimon Adventure: Our War Game! (2000), and Digimon Adventure 02: Digimon Hurricane Touchdown!! / Transcendent Evolution! The Golden Digimentals (2000), while the events of the film take place during the first two seasons of Digimon: Digital Monsters.
Production of the film began in 2000 after Fox sought to bring a feature film to the Digimon franchise. Only three seasonal short films were produced for the series in Japan, which Fox was contractually obligated to produce as one cohesive film by Toei Animation. Due to the drastically different plots and budget restraints, more than 40 minutes of scenes from the individual Japanese films were cut to save time and introduced several changes in tone, dialogue, and plot. Owing to the number of changes made, it is considered an original work by the press.
Digimon: The Movie was released in the United States on October 6, 2000, by 20th Century Fox and was a box office success, grossing over $16 million worldwide (equivalent to over $29 million in 2022) against a production budget of $5 million. Despite negative critical reviews, the film had a more positive reception from both fans and audiences, and has since garnered a small cult following.


== Plot ==


=== Angela Anaconda short ===

Angela Anaconda and her friends line up to watch Digimon: The Movie, but Nannette and her friends cut in line and Mrs. Brinks blocks her view of the screen. Angela imagines herself Digivolving into Angelamon to defeat Mrs. Brinks and Nannette, before the audience all realize they are in the wrong theater and leave.


=== Eight Years Ago ===

Tai and Kari Kamiya find a Digi-egg that appears from their computer, which hatches and Digivolves into Agumon. Agumon wanders into the night with Kari as Tai pursues them. The neighborhood watches as a Parrotmon hatches from a second Digi-egg in the sky. When Parrotmon attacks Tai and Kari, Agumon protects them by digivolving to Greymon. When Greymon is knocked out, Tai reawakens him with Kari's whistle and he defeats Parrotmon, but, following the battle, they both disappear. Those who witnessed this would later become the DigiDestined, children chosen to protect the Digital and real worlds.


=== Four Years Later ===

An infected Digi-egg appears on the Internet and hatches into a Digimon who devours computer code, causing chaos to the world's computer systems. Izzy and Tai are warned by Gennai and a boy from Colorado called Willis, who tells them to find a way to slow the Digimon down. Their Digimon, Agumon and Tentomon, enter the internet but are no match for the newly-Digivolved Infermon. Tai tries to recruit backup, but can only reach Matt and T.K., whose Digimon are also defeated by Infermon's final form, Diaboromon.
Diaboromon duplicates himself and infects the Pentagon's computers, launching nuclear missiles at Colorado and the DigiDestined's neighborhood which will impact in ten minutes. After WarGreymon and MetalGarurumon are defeated by the multitude of Diaboromon, Tai and Matt become digital and enter their computers. Through the collective power of everyone watching, WarGreymon and MetalGarurumon are revived and DNA Digivolve into Omnimon. Omnimon destroys the Diaboromon copies and Izzy, realizing that e-mails being sent in from people around the world watching on their computers have been slowing their Digimon down, redirects them to the original Diaboromon to freeze him in place long enough for Omnimon to destroy him. The missiles are disabled, but the same virus that created Diaboromon tracks down Willis and corrupts his Digimon, Kokomon.


=== Present Day ===
While visiting Mimi Tachikawa in New York City, T.K. and Kari witness a battle between Willis, Terriermon, and a corrupted Kokomon who tells Willis to "go back". Willi