Do the Right Thing is a 1989 American comedy-drama film produced, written and directed by Spike Lee. It stars Lee, Danny Aiello, Ossie Davis, Ruby Dee, Richard Edson, Giancarlo Esposito, Bill Nunn, John Turturro and Samuel L. Jackson and is the feature film debut of Martin Lawrence and Rosie Perez. The story explores a Brooklyn neighborhood's simmering racial tension between its African-American residents and the Italian-American owners of a local pizzeria, culminating in tragedy and violence on a hot summer's day.
A critical and commercial success, the film received accolades, including Academy Award nominations for Best Original Screenplay and Best Supporting Actor (for Aiello's portrayal of Sal, the pizzeria owner). In 1999, it was selected for the National Film Registry by the Library of Congress, citing its preservation as "culturally, historically or aesthetically significant". In 2022, the film was ranked the 24th greatest of all time in Sight and Sound magazine's decennial poll of international critics, programmers, curators, archivists and academics. It has since been featured on many other lists of the greatest films of all time by numerous critics.


== Plot ==
Twenty-five-year-old Mookie lives in Bedford–Stuyvesant with his sister Jade, has a toddler son named Hector with his Latina girlfriend Tina, and works as a delivery man at a pizzeria owned by Salvatore "Sal" Frangione, an Italian-American who lives in Bensonhurst. Sal's racist eldest son Pino is antagonistic towards Mookie, clashing with his father, who refuses to move his business out of the majority African-American neighborhood, and his younger brother Vito, who is friendly with Mookie.
Many distinctive residents are introduced, including friendly drunk Da Mayor; Mother Sister, who observes the block from her brownstone; Radio Raheem, who blasts Public Enemy's "Fight the Power" on his boombox wherever he goes; and Smiley, a mentally disabled man who meanders around town trying to sell hand-colored pictures of Malcolm X and Martin Luther King Jr.
At Sal's, Mookie's friend Buggin' Out questions Sal about his "Wall of Fame", decorated with photos of famous Italian-Americans, and demands that Sal put up pictures of Black celebrities since the pizzeria is in a Black neighborhood. When Sal declines and ejects him, Buggin' Out attempts to start boycotting the pizzeria.
During the day, local teenagers open a fire hydrant and douse the other neighbors to beat the heat wave before white police officers Mark Ponte and Gary Long intervene. After calling Tina on a payphone, Mookie confronts Pino about his contempt towards African-Americans. Various characters break the fourth wall to express racial insults: Mookie against Italians; Pino against African-Americans; a Puerto Rican named Stevie against Koreans; Long against Puerto Ricans; and Korean store owner Sonny against Jews. Pino expresses his hatred for African-Americans to Sal, who insists on staying in the neighborhood.

That night, Buggin' Out, Raheem and Smiley march into Sal's and demand that the Wall of Fame include black celebrities. Sal demands that Raheem turn his boombox off, but he refuses. Buggin' Out badmouths Sal and his sons and threatens to shutter the pizzeria, upsetting Sal, who destroys Raheem's boombox with a bat. Raheem then attacks Sal. His sons and the others struggle to get him off of Sal, then the fight spills out into the street and attracts a crowd. While Raheem is strangling Sal, the police arrive, including Officers Long and Ponte, who break up the fight and apprehend Raheem and Buggin' Out. As the officers attempt to restrain Raheem, Long begins choking him with his nightstick. Though Ponte and onlookers plead for him to stop, Long tightens his choke-hold on Raheem, killing him. Attempting to save face, the duo place his body in the back of a police car and drive off.
The onlookers blame Sal and his sons, but Da Mayor unsuccessfully tries to convince the crowd of Sal's innocence. In a 