Dog of Flanders (フランダースの犬, Furandāsu no Inu) is a 1975 Japanese anime television series adaptation of Ouida's 1872 novel of the same name, produced by Nippon Animation. 52 episodes were produced. A film version was released in 1997.
The series represents the bond between a boy and his ever so faithful dog living in a 19th century Flanders village near Antwerp. The emotional story shows the boy's struggles in life as his grandfather dies and leaves him with his dog. It shows how the hopes of becoming a great classical painter have been seemingly crushed by his grandfather's passing and the way he takes after that tragedy.
The anime series is notable for being the first official entry in the World Masterpiece Theater series (Calpis Children's Theater at the time).


== Production ==
The animators conducted extensive research on 19th century Flanders. Although it has to be said that a lot of features in the series are not Flemish but typically Dutch (the girl's hat and the tulips for example). The buildings depicted in the series were modeled after the Bokrijk open-air museum..  Although there have been some changes from the original story by Marie Louise de la Ramée, it has been faithful in keeping the storyline accurate.
Isao Takahata and Hayao Miyazaki also worked on the series, respectively as storyboard artist and key animator for episode 15.
Dog of Flanders aired on Fuji TV between January 5 and December 28, 1975. Having gone into production before Zuiyo Eizo and Nippon Animation division, episodes 1-20 and 24-26 of the anime were still originally credited to Zuiyo and broadcast in the Calpis Comic Theater series. In subsequent DVD releases Calpis Children's Theater title card was kept in all 52 episodes.


== Film ==
A feature film remake of the series, titled The Dog of Flanders or The Dog of Flanders: The Movie (劇場版 フランダースの犬, Gekijōban Furandāsu no Inu) was released in March 1997. It was distributed by Shochiku. It grossed ¥243,543,645 at the box office. The film was released on VHS in 1999 and later released on DVD in March 2000.


=== Plot ===
Nello Tarth is a poor but happy orphan who lives with his grandfather Jehan in a little village nearby Antwerp. Nello has a talent for drawing pictures and has been fascinated by it since he saw one of Rubens' (a famous artist) pictures as a little boy. Helping Jehan with the daily milk delivery to Antwerp, Nello one day discovers Patrash, a working dog who has been mistreated and abandoned by his former owner. He treats the exhausted animal and after a little while a close and dependable friendship develops. Alois Cojez, the daughter of the richest and hence most influential man in Blacken Village, is Nello's best friend. When Nello decides to become an artist he has to experience first hand the ignorance and cruelty of the villagers. Especially Alois' father thinks of him as a slacker who cannot earn his living by drawing pictures. Nonetheless Nello perseveres and never gives up to achieve his dream and to win their appreciation and respect while strenuously struggling with his poverty.


=== Cast ===
Makoto Tsumura/Brady Bluhm as Nello
Sakura Tange/Debi Derryberry as Alois
Kousei Yagi/Robert Loggia as Grandpa Jehan
Honami Suzuki/Sean Young as the adult/Sister Alois
Katsumi Toriumi/Richard Cansino as the adult Paul
Yuriko Fuchizaki/Lara Cody as the young Paul
Masato Hirano/Randy Montgomery as Hans
Toshiyuki Morikawa/Scott Menville as the adult George
Yoshiko Kamei/Ryan O'Donohue as the young George
Yuko Sasaki as Nello's mother
Bob Papenbrook as Ansole
Sherry Lynn as Elina
Michael McConnohie as Cogetz
Matt K. Miller as Mr. Ike
Chris Carroll as Art Store Owner
Louise Chamis as Mrs. Nulette
Brianne Siddall as Stephen
Paul St. Peter as Art Judge #1
Cliff Wells as Art Judge #2
Mari Devon as Mrs. Jestas
Voices for orphan children provided by Jessica Evans, Dylan Hart, Sophie Lechken, Alex Mandelberg, Bryce Papenbrook.


== References in other media ==
The main opening theme song "Yo