The Forgotten (also known as Don't Look in the Basement and Death Ward #13) is a 1973 independent horror film directed by S. F. Brownrigg, written by Tim Pope and starring Bill McGhee, former Playboy model Rosie Holotik, and Annabelle Weenick (credited as Anne MacAdams) about homicidal patients at an insane asylum.


== Plot ==
Stephens Sanitarium is a secluded rural mental health institute whose chief doctor believes that the best way to cure insanity is to allow the patients to freely act out their realities. After a patient threatens her life, an elderly nurse decides to retire and goes out to visit the chief doctor, Dr. Stephens, to inform him of the decision. However, in the process of therapy (which involves chopping wood with an axe), the crazed former magistrate, Oliver W. Cameron, known as Judge, lands the axe in Dr. Stephens' back, apparently killing him. The nurse returns inside to finish packing, and is attacked by Harriett, a patient who accuses her of stealing her "baby" (actually a plastic doll). The patient kills her by crushing her head in the nurse's suitcase.
The only remaining doctor appears to be Dr. Geraldine Masters, who vows to continue Dr. Stephens's work. Later, she is greeted by Charlotte Beale, a young nurse who reveals that Dr. Stephens hired her a week before. Dr. Masters allows her to settle in. Charlotte meets the patients, including a lobotomized and child-like man named Sam, who enjoys popsicles and his plastic toy boat, a schizophrenic nymphomaniac named Allyson, an emotionally dependent woman named Jennifer, an octogenarian named Mrs. Callingham who spouts poetry and mistakes flowers in the garden for her own children, juvenile prankster Danny, a shellshocked Sergeant who lost his mind after accidentally killing his men in Vietnam, and the judge.
Later, a telephone man comes to investigate the faulty phone system at the institution. Mrs. Callingham's tongue is ripped out of her mouth during her sleep. However, Dr. Masters tells Charlotte that Mrs. Callingham did it to herself. Dr. Masters is actually a patient at the institute whom Dr. Stephens allowed to pretend to be a doctor. After he disobeys her, Dr. Masters burns the Sergeant's hand and murders Jennifer for stealing medicine. After a conversation with Allyson, Charlotte discovers Dr. Masters' secret. Mrs. Callingham indicates to Charlotte that it was Masters who cut out her tongue, apparently to prevent the elderly woman from disclosing the secret. Charlotte then discovers the body of the telephone man in the kitchen closet, presumably murdered by Masters, to make sure he would not report the institution's situation to anyone on the outside. Allyson is distraught, as she thought the man was going to marry her. However, she convinces herself that the man is still alive and drags his body to her room to have sex with it.
Charlotte realizes that her life is in grave danger, and tries to escape. The judge informs her that they all know Masters is a patient, but think Charlotte is one as well. Charlotte finds that all the windows and doors have been boarded up by Masters, preventing an escape. Sam then leads Charlotte to the basement, where she is startled by a man grabbing her ankle and beats him to death with a toy boat. She realizes that it is Dr. Stephens, but not before finishing him off. At the direction of Masters, Sam leads Charlotte upstairs, apparently, so the judge can axe her to death. Sam thinks Charlotte murdered Dr. Stephens on purpose, and helps restrain her. However, he has a flashback from his lobotomy (which Masters had assisted with) and lets Charlotte go. He then leaves the room as Masters cowers in a corner. As Sam leaves, the other inmates enter with weapons, and the judge axes Masters to death. Disturbed, Sam grabs the axe, and kills all the other inmates except Mrs. Callingham, who is not in the room. Charlotte is already outside, having been told of a secret exit in the basement by Sam. She wanders around outside w