The Doors is the debut studio album by American rock band the Doors, released on January 4, 1967, by Elektra Records. It was recorded in August 1966 at Sunset Sound Recorders, in Hollywood, California, under the production of Paul A. Rothchild. The album features the extended version of the band's breakthrough single "Light My Fire" and the lengthy closer "The End" with its Oedipal spoken word section. Various publications, including BBC and Rolling Stone, have ranked The Doors as one of the greatest debut albums of all time. 
The Doors worked on the material of their debut album throughout 1966 at various locations and stages, such as the Whisky a Go Go. The album's recording started after their dismissal from the venue, having just signed with Elektra Records. The recording of The Doors established the band's wide range of musical influences, such as jazz, classical, blues, pop, R&B and rock music. It has been largely viewed as an essential part of the psychedelic rock evolution, while also being acknowledged as a source of inspiration to numerous other works.
The Doors and "Light My Fire" have been inducted into the Grammy Hall of Fame. In 2015, the Library of Congress selected The Doors for inclusion in the National Recording Registry for being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant". The Doors has sold over 13 million copies worldwide as of 2015, making it the band's best-selling album. In 2003 and 2012, Rolling Stone ranked it number 42 on its list of the "500 Greatest Albums of All Time", repositioning it to number 86 in the 2020 edition.


== Background ==

The Doors' final lineup was formed in mid-1965 after keyboardist Ray Manzarek's two brothers Rick and Jim 'Manczarek' left Rick & the Ravens, whose members included besides Manzarek, jazz-influenced drummer John Densmore and then-novice vocalist Jim Morrison. The group's four man membership was established when guitarist Robby Krieger agreed to join. Though he had previous experience playing folk and flamenco, Krieger had only been playing the electric guitar for a few months when he was invited to become a member of the band, soon renamed the Doors. They were initially signed to Columbia Records under a six-month contract, but they asked for an early release after the record company failed to secure a producer for the album and placed them on a drop list.
Following their release from the label, the Doors played residencies in mid-1966 at two historic Sunset Strip club venues, the London Fog and Whisky a Go Go. They were spotted at the Whisky a Go Go by Elektra Records president Jac Holzman, who was present at the suggestion of Love singer Arthur Lee. After he saw two sets, Holzman called producer Paul A. Rothchild to see the group. On August 18, after attending several appearances of the band, Holzman and Rothchild ultimately signed them to Elektra Records.
The Doors continued performing at the Whisky until on August 21, when they were fired due to their performance of "The End" on which Morrison improvised an uncensored retelling section of the mythical Greek king, Oedipus. Morrison had missed the first of two sets that night, as he had stayed at the Tropicana Hotel, tripping on LSD.


== Recording ==
The Doors was recorded by producer Paul A. Rothchild and audio engineer Bruce Botnick at Sunset Sound Studios in Hollywood, California, over about a week in late  August 1966. "Indian Summer" and "Moonlight Drive" were the first rehearsal outtakes of the album, while the first actual songs recorded that appeared being "I Looked at You" and "Take It as It Comes". A four-track tape machine was used at the cost of approximately $10,000. Three of the tracks were utilized as: bass and drums on one, guitar and organ on another, and Morrison's vocals on the third. The fourth track was used for overdubbing (mainly Morrison's harmony vocals and bass guitar).
The album's instrumentation includes keyboards, electric guitar, occasional bass, drums, and marxophon