Doug's 1st Movie is a 1999 American animated comedy film based on the Disney-produced episodes of the Nickelodeon television series Doug. The film was directed by Maurice Joyce, and stars the regular television cast of Tom McHugh, Fred Newman, Chris Phillips, Constance Shulman, Frank Welker, Alice Playten, Guy Hadley, and Doris Belack. Produced by Walt Disney Television Animation and Jumbo Pictures with animation provided by Plus One Animation, it was released by Buena Vista Pictures Distribution under its Walt Disney Pictures label on March 26, 1999. The film serves as a finale for the Doug TV show. An accompanying Mickey Mouse Works short "Donald's Dynamite: Opera Box" was released with the film.
The film received generally negative reviews, who criticized its story, screenplay, and characters, however, the voice acting received some praise. Despite the title and its mild success at the box office, no further films based on Doug were made.


== Plot ==
BluffCo has been dumping waste into Lucky Duck Lake under the command of CEO Bill Bluff. This pollution creates a friendly creature that is discovered by Doug Funnie and Skeeter Valentine. They home the creature in Doug's house, where they name him Herman Melville after he tries to eat a copy of Moby-Dick. Not wanting him to be discovered, they disguise him as a foreign exchange student called Hermione, causing Doug's love interest Patti Mayonnaise to become jealous from all the attention he gives her, leading school paper reporter Guy Graham to make a move on her. Meanwhile, Roger Klotz and his cronies, after learning about Herman, build a robot to kidnap him, but instead it becomes very overbearing toward Roger.
Doug and Skeeter show Herman to Doug's neighbor, Mayor Tippy Dink, who warns them Bluff will kill the story if they try to get it into the press. After being mocked by Guy in front of Patti, Doug calls a press announcement where he promises to expose what Bluff is doing to the lake. While initially dismissive, Guy finds a picture of Herman and realizes Doug is telling the truth. He notifies Bluff, who sends BluffCo agents to Doug's announcement posing as reporters to capture Herman. Doug sees through the ruse and calls off the conference, but Herman is kidnapped and Patti now believes Doug to be a liar.
The next morning, in the school newspaper office, Doug finds an article by Guy detailing how Herman attacked students at the upcoming Valentine's Day dance and was killed by BluffCo agents. Realizing Guy and Bluff's plan, Doug and Skeeter recruit Roger and Al and Moo Sleech to help thwart it. On the night of the dance Doug has to give up his last chance to win Patti back in order to save Herman. The Sleech's reprogram Roger's robot to act like the monster in Guy's article, distracting everyone while Doug and Skeeter find Herman and sneak him out of the school in a giant Valentine's decoration.
They bring Herman to Crystal Lake and release him into the fresh waters, where they are confronted and threatened by Bluff. Seeing this his daughter, Beebe, sides with her friends and Mayor Dink hints at revealing Bluff's practices to the government unless he volunteers to clean up Lucky Duck Lake himself. Defeated and threatened with a potential lawsuit that could bankrupt him, Bluff is reduced to crawling on his knees after Beebe, begging for her forgiveness. Then Herman reveals himself to Patti and she sees that Doug was right all along, and she dumps Guy and the gang says goodbye to Herman. Then Doug tries to reveal his feelings for Patti, but then Roger thanks him for reprogramming his robot, which then chases him away. The movie ends with everyone going back to the dance except for Doug, Patti, Skeeter, and Beebe, who dances with each other by the lake.


== Voice cast ==
Tom McHugh as Doug Funnie, Lincoln
Fred Newman as Skeeter Valentine, Mr. Dink, Porkchop, Ned
Chris Phillips as Roger Klotz, Boomer, Larry, Mr. Chiminy
Constance Shulman as Patti Mayonnaise
Frank Welker as