Dr. No is a 1962 spy film directed by Terence Young. It is the first film in the James Bond series. Starring Sean Connery, Ursula Andress, Joseph Wiseman and Jack Lord, it was adapted by Richard Maibaum, Johanna Harwood, and Berkely Mather from the 1958 novel of the same name by Ian Fleming. The film was produced by Harry Saltzman and Albert R. Broccoli, a partnership that continued until 1975. It was followed by From Russia with Love in 1963. In the film, James Bond is sent to Jamaica to investigate the disappearance of a fellow British agent. The trail leads him to the underground base of Dr. Julius No, who is plotting to disrupt an early American space launch from Cape Canaveral with a radio beam weapon.
Although it was the first of the Bond books to be made into a film, Dr. No was the sixth of Fleming's series, beginning with Casino Royale. The film makes a few references to threads from earlier books, and later books in the series as well, such as the criminal organisation SPECTRE, which was not introduced until the 1961 novel Thunderball. Produced on a low budget, Dr. No was a financial success. While the film received a mixed critical reaction upon release, it has gained a reputation over time as one of the series' best instalments. Dr. No also launched a genre of secret agent films that flourished in the 1960s. The film spawned a comic book adaptation and soundtrack album as part of its promotion and marketing.
Many aspects of a typical James Bond film were established in Dr. No. The film begins with an introduction to the character through the view of a gun barrel and a highly stylised main title sequence, both of which were created by Maurice Binder. It also introduced the iconic theme music. Production designer Ken Adam established an elaborate visual style that is one of the hallmarks of the film series.


== Plot ==
John Strangways, the Station Chief of MI6 in Jamaica, is murdered, along with his secretary Mary, by a trio of assassins before his home is ransacked. When news of Strangways's death reaches M, the head of MI6, he assigns intelligence officer James Bond to investigate the matter, and determine if it is related to Strangways' cooperation with the CIA on a case involving the disruption of rocket launches from Cape Canaveral by radio jamming. When Bond arrives in Jamaica, he is accosted by a man claiming to be a chauffeur sent to collect him, but is really an enemy agent sent to kill him. Bond turns the tables on the agent, but before he can interrogate him, the agent kills himself by biting into a cyanide-laced cigarette. After visiting government headquarters, Bond asks principal secretary Pleydell Smith to set up a meeting with those who saw Strangways last, which includes Professor Dent. Later visiting  Strangways' house Bond finds a receipt from Dent and a picture of Strangways and Quarrel, a man who tailed Bond from the airport earlier. When Bond confronts Quarrel it is revealed that he is aiding the CIA and he introduces Bond to their agent Felix Leiter, who is also investigating Strangways' death.
Bond learns from Felix that the CIA traced the radio jamming signal to Jamaica (which was a British colony until 1962), and that Strangways was helping to pinpoint its exact origin. Quarrel reveals that before Strangways died, the pair collected mineral samples from an island called Crab Key, where people are forbidden to go. Bond visits Dent, inquiring about the samples and Crab Key, but is suspicious of his answers when he claims the samples checked out as normal. Following the meeting, Dent travels to Crab Key to meet its reclusive owner, for whom he works, to inform him of Bond's visit. Under strict instructions, Dent attempts to have Bond killed with a tarantula. However, Bond kills the spider and sets a trap for Dent. Bond turns the tables on the three blind mice assassins, then has Pleydell Smith's corrupt secretary Miss Taro arrested as well. When the geologist arrives, Bond holds him at gunpoint