Dragonheart, stylized as DragonHeart, is a Universal Pictures media franchise that began with the 1996 film of the same name, directed by Rob Cohen and written by Charles Edward Pogue, based on an original story by Pogue and Patrick Read Johnson. The film's moderate box office success and strong home media sales spawned the franchise, consisting of a straight-to-video sequel, three prequels, and various merchandise, including toys, trading cards, and books.


== Films ==


=== Dragonheart (1996) ===

During the Dark Ages, the young Anglo-Saxon prince Einon (Lee Oakes) gets wounded during a peasant rebellion that kills his tyrannical father, King Freyne. His mother, Queen Aislinn (Julie Christie), brings Einon to a dragon (Sean Connery) that shares half its heart with the boy-king on the condition that Einon rule with honor. When Einon betrays his word, his mentor Sir Bowen (Dennis Quaid), a knight of the Old Code, believes the dragon's heart corrupted Einon and swears vengeance. Twelve years later, Einon (David Thewlis) is a more brutal king than his father, and Bowen is an embittered dragonslayer. During one of his escapades, he meets the traveling monk Brother Gilbert (Pete Postlethwaite) and soon encounters the world's last dragon. Their battle ends in a stalemate, and they decide to team up for each other's benefit by conning villagers for money with staged dragon slayings. They become friends, and Bowen names the dragon Draco after the constellation. They meet a peasant woman named Kara (Dina Meyer), trying to start an uprising against Einon. Joining her cause, Bowen and his allies learn that they must make a great sacrifice to free the land from Einon's tyranny.


=== Dragonheart: A New Beginning (2000) ===

Decades after the 1996 film, the elderly Bowen finds a dragon egg in Draco's cave a year before his death. There's a prophecy foretelling that a dragon's heart will doom humanity when a two-tailed comet arrives, so Bowen leaves the egg in the care of Brother Gilbert's monastery. The friars vow to hide the dragon until after the comet passes. Twenty years later, eight days before the fateful day, the king (Ken Shorter) names Lord Osric (Harry Van Gorkum) his chief advisor, and the task of caring for the dragon falls upon the novice monk Mansel (Matt Hickey). Meanwhile, two Hebei Province citizens, Master Kwan (Henry O) and his son (Rona Figueroa) seek the dragon to prevent the prophecy. Geoff (Chris Masterson), an orphaned stable boy in the monastery, befriends the young dragon hidden in the dungeon named Drake (Robby Benson). After the kingdom becomes aware of Drake's existence, he and Geoff fail to see the dangers hidden around them as Osric, anticipating the comet's arrival, uses Geoff's desire to be a knight to get close to Drake.
A New Beginning is the sequel to Dragonheart, the first direct-to-video film in the series, the movie with the shortest runtime and the only one rated PG. It's the only film in the franchise with a female screenwriter and an original song.


=== Dragonheart 3: The Sorcerer's Curse (2015) ===

A druid circle foresees a falling star from the Draco constellation in 9th century Northern Britain. A druid named Brude (Jonjo O'Neill) seeks to wage war against the inhabitants on the Southern side of Hadrian's Wall. On the wall's southern flank, Sir Horsa (Dominic Mafham) denies a squire named Gareth (Julian Morris) his knighthood until he pays 100 crowns. After a meteor crashes north of the wall, Gareth sets to find it as rumor says it contains gold. Gareth is shocked to find a set of dragon eggs guarded by a dragon (Ben Kingsley) instead. After the dragon saves Gareth's life, the two become bonded. Then Gareth and the dragon, whom Gareth names Drago, must work with an apprentice druid named Lorne (Jassa Ahluwalia) and a Celtic rebel leader named Rhonu (Tamzin Merchant) to retrieve the eggs, defeat Brude, and stop his reign of terror. Along the way, they must work to free Drago from a curse that