Qin's wars of unification were a series of military campaigns launched in the late 3rd century BC by the state of Qin against the other six powers remaining  in China — Han, Zhao, Yan, Wei, Chu and Qi. Between 247 and 221 BC, Qin had developed into one of the most powerful of China's Seven Warring States that coalesced in the wake of the Zhou dynasty's decline, by now retaining a weak and merely ceremonial position among the warring states. In 230 BC, King Ying Zheng of Qin began the sequence of campaigns that would bring the Warring States period to a close, setting out to conquer each remaining sovereign one by one. This was completed in 221 BC with the fall of Qi, leaving the former Zhou sphere unified under a more centralized Qin control. Ying Zheng declared himself the First Emperor, or Qin Shi Huang—becoming the first sovereign over a unified China under the imperial Qin dynasty.


== Background ==


=== Rise of Qin and early conquests ===
Over the course of the Warring States period, and especially following Shang Yang's administrative reforms during the mid-4th century BC, the state of Qin had grown to become the most powerful of the Seven Warring States that remained in China. The others repeatedly adopted a policy of "vertical alliance" (合縱; hézòng) where they all joined in as allies against Qin. However, Qin sometimes maneuvered itself into alliances of its own among these states, forging "horizontal alliances" (連橫; liánhéng) that pitted the common enemies of Qin against one another.
In 316 BC, Qin expanded south towards the Sichuan Basin by conquering the states of Ba and Shu. In 278, the Qin under general Bai Qi attacked Chu from land they had recently conquered land in what is now Sichuan. The Chu capitals of Ying and Chen (陳) were captured, and all of Chu's possessions west of the Han River were lost. In 272, Qin conquered the Xirong state of Yiqu. After the last horizontal alliance to punish Qi ended in 284, Qin fought multiple wars against the northern state of Zhao in 283, 269, and 265 BC.
In 269 BC, Fan Sui became chief advisor to Qin. He advocated authoritarian reforms, irrevocable expansion and an alliance with distant states to attack nearby states. In 265, King Zhaoxiang of Qin made the first move by attacking the Shangdang region of Han state. The governor of Shangdang refused to surrender and presented it to the King of Zhao. The Qin and Zhao armies were locked in a 2-year siege at Changping, which culminated in a decisive defeat of Zhao by the Qin army. In 257, the Qin army was defeated by the allied force of Zhao, Wei and Chu after failing to capture the Zhao capital at Handan. 
At the time of King Nan of Zhou, the kings of Zhou dynasty had lost almost all political and military power, their remaining crown land was split into two states: West Zhou, centered in Wangcheng, and East Zhou, centered at Chengzhou. Qin forces conquered West Zhou in 256 BC, claiming the Nine Cauldrons and thereby symbolically becoming The Son of Heaven. In 249, the new Qin king Zhuangxiang conquered East Zhou, bringing the Zhou dynasty to an end more than eight centuries after their overthrow of the Shang.


=== King Ying Zheng ===
In 238 BC, King Ying Zheng of Qin took the reins of power after eliminating his political rivals in Lü Buwei and Lao Ai. With help from Li Si, Wei Liao, and others, Ying Zheng formulated a plan for conquering the other six major states and unifying China. The plan, which focused on annexing each state individually, was based on "allying with distant states and attacking nearby ones", one of the Thirty-Six Stratagems. Its key steps were to ally with Yan and Qi, deter Wei and Chu, and conquer Han and Zhao.


== Unification ==


=== Conquest of Zhao ===

From 283 to 257 BC, Qin and Zhao had engaged in bloody warfare against one another, and Zhao's defeat in the Battle of Changping in 260 BC had severely weakened their ability to fight.
In 236 BC, while Zhao was attacking Yan, Qin used the opportunit