Encino Man (known as California Man in several territories) is a 1992 American comedy film directed by Les Mayfield in his directorial debut. The film stars Sean Astin, Brendan Fraser, Mariette Hartley, Richard Masur, and Pauly Shore with supporting roles by Megan Ward, Robin Tunney, Michael DeLuise, and Ke Huy Quan. In the film, two teenagers discover and thaw a frozen caveman, who has to adjust to 20th-century society while teaching them life lessons of his own.
The film was released on May 22, 1992, by Buena Vista Pictures Distribution (under its Hollywood Pictures label). Despite negative reviews, Encino Man was a box-office success, grossing $40.7 million worldwide on a $7 million budget. It was followed by a made-for-television spin-off, Encino Woman, in 1996.


== Plot ==
During the first ice age, a caveman attempts to make fire with his cavewoman girlfriend. An earthquake causes a cave-in that buries the two of them.
In 1992, an earthquake awakens Dave Morgan, an Encino teenager who strives to attain popularity in high school, but unlike his popular friend, Stoney Brown, is unsuccessful. Dave is in love with Robyn Sweeney, who was his best friend in grade school and had been rejected by him several times prior. Her boyfriend, Matt Wilson, is a jock who constantly humiliates Dave and Stoney, usually due to Dave's affection toward Robyn.
One day, while digging a pool in his backyard, Dave discovers the caveman, who is frozen in a gigantic block of ice. He leaves the ice block unattended in the garage before leaving for school the next morning, and space heaters left on cause the ice to melt, releasing the caveman.
When Dave returns home with Stoney, they find hand paint covering the walls and the house in disarray. A beeping smoke alarm leads them to Dave's bedroom, where they discover the caveman attempting to start a fire. At first, he panics upon seeing them and hearing a telephone, but Stoney uses the flame of a lighter to mesmerize and calm him. After bathing and trimming him, Dave names him Link.
Dave and Stoney manage to get Link some clothes and fool Dave's parents and sister into thinking he is an Estonian exchange student sent to live with them. They enroll him in school, where Link's bizarre behavior and supreme athletic skills make Dave and Stoney popular by association, allowing Dave to get closer to Robyn, stoking Matt's anger.
Soon, Stoney's eccentric attitude influences Link's own mannerisms, which causes a rift between Dave and Stoney. Matt starts a fight with Link at a skating rink and becomes more enraged after Robyn leaves him.
During a school field trip to the La Brea Tar Pits, Link grieves after realizing that the cavepeople he knew are all dead. Stoney and Dave reassure Link that he is not without friends in this time. During a driver's ed lesson, Link drives away in a car with Dave, Stoney, and Robyn before stopping at a dance club. Dave and Link are arrested after the police follow them there.
Dismayed at the caveman's antics and Robyn's desire to go to the upcoming prom with Link, Dave tries to abandon him, but Stoney reprimands him, leading to a fight between the two. This causes Link to return and break up the fight, leading Dave to apologize for his actions.
On prom night, Link is a hit at the party with Robyn as his date, while Dave stays at home for the evening. Matt breaks into Dave's bedroom and steals photographic evidence that Link is a caveman. As Dave and Stoney pursue Matt and his friends, another earthquake happens. Matt exposes Link as a caveman in an attempt to destroy his and Dave's reputation, but this instead makes Link even more popular. Matt is left humiliated, Dave and Robyn make up, and the three boys lead the entire prom in an impromptu caveman-like dance with Infectious Grooves providing the music.
After the prom, some of the students visit Dave's house for a pool party, where Dave and Robyn kiss. Meanwhile, Stoney and Link discover breast prints on the slider and paint c