End of Days is a 1999 American action horror film directed by Peter Hyams and written by Andrew W. Marlowe. It stars Arnold Schwarzenegger, with Gabriel Byrne, Robin Tunney, Kevin Pollak, Rod Steiger, CCH Pounder, Derrick O'Connor, Miriam Margolyes and Udo Kier in supporting roles. The film follows alcoholic former New York Police Department detective Jericho Cane (Schwarzenegger) who, after he saves a banker (Byrne) from an assassin, finds himself embroiled in a religious conflict and must protect an innocent young woman (Tunney) who is chosen by evil forces to conceive the Antichrist with Satan.
The film was released by Universal Pictures on November 24, 1999 and received largely negative reviews. It grossed $212 million worldwide. 


== Plot ==
In 1979, a Vatican city priest witnesses a comet arching over the full moon, signifying a prophecy of the end of days. The Pope sends a priest on a mission to protect a newborn baby, Christine York, identified in New York City by satanists as one chosen to be the mother of Satan's child. Some of the Vatican knights (led by a corrupt cardinal) insist that she must be killed, but the Pope rejects their plan as it goes against God's will.
In late December 1999, Satan possesses an investment banker. After adjusting to his mortal form, he molests the wife of a business associate and later causes a restaurant to erupt in an explosion of fire. Alcoholic retired NYPD detective Jericho Cane, depressed since his wife and daughter's contract killings, runs a private security company and blames God for his plight. Jericho and friend Bobby Chicago are assigned to protect the possessed banker. A priest, Thomas Aquinas, fails to kill the banker. Jericho captures Aquinas and, after hearing his ramblings, gives him to the New York City Police Department (NYPD). Marge Francis, an NYPD detective and Jericho's former colleague, tells Jericho that Aquinas has no tongue.
Jericho and Bobby investigate Aquinas' apartment, where they find his tongue in a jar and messages and symbols written in blood on the walls. Aquinas turns out to be trained by the Vatican and was sent to New York before disappearing. Jericho questions Father Kovak, a priest who knew Aquinas. However, Kovak responds in a vague and unsatisfying manner and Jericho ultimately leaves. Later in the evening, Satan confronts his head priest who informs him that his followers are everywhere and ready to enact his plans. Seemingly pleased, Satan then takes an interest in the doctor's wife and daughter. Later, the three are shown making love as Satan combines the mother and daughter's bodies into an image of Christine and then makes love to her.
The day after, Satan enters Aquinas' hospital, and crucifies him on the ceiling after mocking him. After he is brought down and presumed dead, Jericho and Chicago read in Latin "Christ in New York" carved into his skin. They begin searching for any similar names and come across Christine York in her apartment.
Jericho and Chicago rescue her from being killed by the Vatican knights. However, Satan then appears and immolates Chicago. Jericho and Christine flee from him. Marge and another officer, both revealed to be Satanists, demand Jericho surrenders Christine. Jericho kills them both and escapes with Christine. Satan resurrects Marge to rally the other Satanists to do his bidding. Taking refuge in the church, Father Kovak tells Jericho and Christine that Satan must impregnate her by midnight on New Year's Eve to usher in the "end of days". Christine accepts Kovak's protection, and Jericho leaves her there.
Satan confronts Jericho in his apartment and tries to tempt him into giving up Christine in exchange for resurrecting his dead family. After Jericho resists his temptations, Chicago arrives at his apartment, and the two agree to retrieve Christine from the church.
Back at the church, Jericho stops the cardinal and his knights from killing Christine. Satan reappears and kills the Vatican clergy. Chicago b