Endless Summer Vacation is the eighth studio album by American singer Miley Cyrus, released on March 10, 2023, via Columbia Records. It is her first new body of work since leaving RCA Records after her seventh studio album Plastic Hearts (2020) and signing with Columbia in early 2021. A pop and dance-pop record, Endless Summer Vacation is a shift from the synth-pop, rock, and glam rock genres featured on Plastic Hearts. Cyrus related its overall concept to her affection for Los Angeles, where the album was mainly recorded, and its track sequencing to the course of a day. Brandi Carlile and Sia are featured as guest vocalists.
The album was supported by three singles. The lead single, "Flowers", set several streaming and chart records and spent eight weeks atop the U.S. Billboard Hot 100, marking Cyrus' second number-one in the country, and topped the charts in 36 other countries. The second and third singles "River" and "Jaded" followed in March and April, respectively. A digital edition of the album featuring the fourth single, "Used to Be Young", was released in August. With its release, Endless Summer Vacation became Cyrus's first album to feature multiple US top-ten singles since Bangerz (2013).
Upon release, Endless Summer Vacation received praise from music critics, who complimented its production, commercial appeal, and Cyrus' vocal performance. Commercially, it reached number-one in ten countries and the top 10 in 17 countries. The album was nominated for Album of the Year and Best Pop Vocal Album at the 66th Annual Grammy Awards, whilst "Flowers" won Record of the Year and Best Pop Solo Performance.
Cyrus performed eight of the twelve tracks for the Disney+ documentary concert special Endless Summer Vacation (Backyard Sessions), which was released on March 10, 2023. An updated version of the special was broadcast on ABC on August 24, 2023, and released on Hulu the day after.


== Background and recording ==
After ending her eight-year contract with RCA Records, Cyrus signed with Columbia Records in March 2021. Her first releases with the label were a remix of the Kid Laroi's "Without You" and the live album Attention: Miley Live, released in April 2021 and April 2022 respectively. In an article published in October 2021, Billboard confirmed that Cyrus was working on her next album. The album was described as "her love letter to LA" that represents the physical and mental growth she experienced during production.
Cyrus wrote several songs with Michael Pollack and Gregory "Aldae" Hein. They were conceived only with piano, then evolving into their final versions. Pollack said that Cyrus decided to focus on songcraft before tackling the production. She worked with several producers including Kid Harpoon, Tyler Johnson, Greg Kurstin, and Mike Will Made It, the latter of whom contributed to Bangerz (2013), Miley Cyrus & Her Dead Petz (2015), and She Is Coming (2019). The album was recorded in Los Angeles.


== Composition ==
Endless Summer Vacation is a pop and dance-pop record, incorporating rock, country and experimental songs. Cyrus explained that the album is divided into two parts: AM and PM. AM represents "the morning time, where there's a buzz and energy and there's a potential of new possibilities", while PM represents the nighttime, which "feels like there's a slinky, seediness and kind of a grime but a glamour at the same time". 


=== Music and Lyrics ===
Endless Summer Vacation's third track "Rose Colored Lenses" was described by Pitchfork as "seemingly about a moment of post-coital bliss, wallows in the realization that such peace can never really last". While The Georgetown Voice describes it as "Cyrus fantasizes about living in a dream world where the love she describes could and would last. The chorus, she says, "We could stay like this forever / lost in wonderland / with our heads above the clouds / fallin' stupid like we're kids / wearin' rose colored lenses, let's just play pretend."" Moving on to "You," 