Eraserheads (sometimes stylized as ERASƎRHEADS or ƎRASƎRHƎADS) are a Filipino alternative rock band formed in 1989. With a lineup comprising Ely Buendia, Buddy Zabala, Marcus Adoro, and Raimund Marasigan, they are the most influential and successful Filipino band in Philippine music history. Regarded as "the Beatles of the Philippines", the band have sold 9 million copies of their discography throughout their career.
With their debut album Ultraelectromagneticpop! (1993) and the following albums Circus (1994) and Cutterpillow (1995), Eraserheads ushered in a second wave of Filipino rock bands in the 1990s.  Their first three albums also achieved commercial success, with Cutterpillow becoming the third biggest-selling album in OPM history and the biggest for any Filipino band or group. Eraserheads also received the International Viewer’s Choice Award (MTV Asia) at the 1997 MTV Video Music Awards in New York, the only Filipino artist to have received the award before the conception of the MTV Asia Awards.
After releasing the Christmas-themed concept album Fruitcake (1996), Eraserheads experimented with electronic and art rock styles for their next albums Sticker Happy (1997), Natin99 (1999), and Carbon Stereoxide (2001). The band broke up in 2002, and all principal former members have enjoyed success as solo artists. They later reunited in 2008 for a series of reunion concerts in the Philippines and have since made sporadic touring and promotional appearances in the country and overseas.


== History ==


=== 1989–1992: Formation and early years ===

The members of Eraserheads met while attending University of the Philippines Diliman in Quezon City in 1989. Vocalist Ely Buendia previously had two college bands, Bluidie Tryste and Sunday School, and was a year above drummer Raimund Marasigan (also a session drummer for Sunday School), bassist Buddy Zabala, and guitarist Marcus Adoro; the three were part of another college band named Curfew. Ely posted an audition notice for a new band on a university message board, of which only Raimund, Buddy, and Marcus showed up.
The new band called themselves Eraserheads after the David Lynch film Eraserhead (1977). Initially achieving little success playing covers at schools and Manila’s rock club circuit, they decided to write their own material, which soon earned them a cult following around the university. One of the songs in particular, "Pare Ko", became popular for its explicit lyrics.
On January 26, 1991, Eraserheads recorded a nine-song demo tape at the garage of Marasigan’s provincial home in Candelaria, Quezon. They later shopped the demo cassette around record labels, clubs, and radio stations only to be met with rejection at every turn; one recording label commented that the demos are “not pop enough”. Later in May, UP Diliman humanities professor and friend of the band Robin Rivera helped them re-record and mix better versions of the demo songs on a four-track DAT recorder. The new demo tape was named Pop-U! as an irreverent response to those who turned them down.
Meanwhile, Buendia became an employee of BMG Records (Pilipinas) Inc. (now part of Sony BMG Music Entertainment) as a student copywriter. Working with BMG during the day, he wrote songs with the band at night. Their material later caught the attention of BMG A&R director Vic Valenciano, who commented that they were technically very raw but that there was something promising in them. In 1992, BMG signed the band into a three-year record deal.


=== 1993–1997: Mainstream success ===
Eraserheads recorded their debut album, Ultraelectromagneticpop!, in early 1993, with some of the tracks rerecorded from Pop-U!. First released by BMG on cassette in July, the album was a commercial success, selling 300,000 copies by the end of the year. Its lead single “Pare Ko” became controversial for its explicit lyrics, with the Philippine Association of the Record Industry (PARI) unsuccessfully attempting to censor it. As a result, the a