Dwarfism has been showcased across many types of media. As popular media has become more prevalent, a greater number of works depicting dwarfism have popularized the condition.


== Literature ==
Several works of literature treat dwarfism as a major theme, with varying degrees of realism:

The Tin Drum (Die Blechtrommel) by Günter Grass. The protagonist, Oskar Matzerath, refuses to grow up and as such goes through many large events in history with the stature of a small child.
Stones from the River by Ursula Hegi. Trudi Montag is a dwarf who tries to survive in a small German town during World War II.
The Dwarf by Pär Lagerkvist. The entire novel is based around a dwarf protagonist and his life in an Italian city-state.
A Prayer for Owen Meany by John Irving. Owen Meany, the friend of the narrator and major focus of the story, is a dwarf with a fixed voicebox.
"Hop-Frog, or The Eight Chained Ourang-Outangs" by Edgar Allan Poe. The titular character Hop-Frog and his friend Tripetta are dwarfs.
A Song of Ice and Fire series by George R.R. Martin. A main character, Tyrion Lannister, is a dry, quick-witted dwarf who struggles with acceptance by "normal" people who mock him and call him "the Imp".
Maybe the Moon, by Armistead Maupin, has as its protagonist Cadence Roth, a Jewish dwarf actress. The character is based on Maupin's friend Tamara De Treaux, who played the title role in the movie E.T.
Geek Love by Katherine Dunn. The narrator of the novel, Olympia Binewski, is an albino hunchback dwarf whose family owns a traveling carnival.


== Film and television ==
Several works of visual arts treat dwarfism as a major theme, with varying degrees of realism:

In the 1960s and early 1970s, actor Michael Dunn was well known for his recurring role on television series The Wild Wild West, as Dr. Miguelito Loveless. In the pilot episode of the Mel Brooks and Buck Henry television spy spoof Get Smart, Dunn appeared as the well-heeled gangster Mr. Big, leader of an international crime syndicate.
Even Dwarfs Started Small (Auch Zwerge haben klein angefangen) by Werner Herzog. The film's entire cast is made up of dwarfs. The film is about a group of dwarfs confined in an institution on a remote island rebel against the guards and director.
Another film with an all-dwarf cast was The Terror of Tiny Town released in 1938. Filmed as a normal western on a full size set, it allowed for some sight gags like cowboys walking UNDER the batwing doors to enter the saloon.
In the mid-1970s, Sid and Marty Krofft built an indoor theme park in Atlanta, Georgia called The World of Sid and Marty Krofft. The park included a live stage production, that was then the largest gathering of "little people" since the filming of The Wizard of Oz in 1937–38, as well as being the largest indoor theme park built to date. The facility that housed the theme park now houses the studios of CNN, the Cable News Network, and CNN Headline News.
In the 1970s and 1980s, Filipino actor Weng Weng appeared in several feature films, and played the starring role in the spy movie spoof For Your Height Only and its sequel The Impossible Kid. The 1981 fantasy film Time Bandits featured six dwarf characters. The 1989 Indian Film, Apoorva Sagodharargal directed by Singeetam Srinivasa Rao, was one of the enduring works on dwarf characters in film.
In the 1990s, Seinfeld featured a dwarf character, Mickey Abbott, in seven episodes; Mickey was played by actor Danny Woodburn. He got into several physical altercations with 6-foot (1.8 m)-plus Kramer. In one episode, he was ostracized by his dwarf peers for using lifts in his shoes to make him look taller.
French actress and comedian Mimie Mathy is the star of the TV series Joséphine ange gardien, broadcast on TF1 since 1997, in which she plays a guardian angel who helps a variety of people solve their problems, with the help of her magical powers and good sense.
Actor and stunt man Verne Troyer has become famous playing the character "Mini-Me" i