Ever After (known in promotional material as Ever After: A Cinderella Story) is a 1998 American romantic period drama film inspired by the Charles Perrault fairy tale "Cinderella". It is directed by Andy Tennant and stars Drew Barrymore, Anjelica Huston, Dougray Scott, Jeanne Moreau, Megan Dodds, Melanie Lynskey, Patrick Godfrey, Lee Ingleby, Richard O'Brien, Timothy West, and Judy Parfitt. Tennant, Susannah Grant and Rick Parks wrote the screenplay. George Fenton composed the original music score. The film's closing theme song, "Put Your Arms Around Me", is performed by the rock band Texas.
The film removes the pantomime and supernatural elements that are commonly associated with the Cinderella tale and instead treats the story as historical fiction, setting it in Renaissance-era France. It is considered to be a modern, post-feminist interpretation of the fairy tale.
Ever After was well received by critics and was a box-office success.


== Plot ==
The Brothers Grimm are invited to an audience with the Grande Dame, who expresses her disappointment in their version of Cinderella. She produces a jeweled glass slipper and recounts Cinderella's true story.
During the French Renaissance, ten years after the death of Auguste de Barbarac, his daughter, Danielle, has been forced to become a servant to her stepmother, the Baroness Rodmilla de Ghent, and stepsisters,  Marguerite and Jacqueline. One morning, Danielle has an unexpected confrontation with Prince Henry as he is attempting to flee in order to avoid an arranged marriage, at first mistaking him for a thief. Henry gives Danielle some coins to keep their interlude secret. He is eventually caught by the Royal Guard after stopping bandits from robbing Leonardo da Vinci, whom King Francis has invited to the French court.
Danielle, going disguised as a noblewoman, heads to the palace to buy back a family servant, Maurice, who was sold by Rodmilla. Henry witnesses her arguing with the jailer and, impressed by Danielle's passion and intelligence, orders the jailer to release Maurice. When he asks for her name, Danielle gives her mother's name, Countess Nicole de Lancret. King Francis strikes a deal with Henry later that night. He will hold a masquerade ball at which Henry will announce his engagement to the woman of his choosing at midnight, or else marry Princess Gabriella of Spain. Hearing this news, Rodmilla accelerates her efforts at getting Henry to notice Marguerite, while being increasingly neglectful to Jacqueline. Meanwhile, Danielle begins secretly spending time with Henry. After an outing at the library of the Francian monks, a gang of gypsies ambushes them, but they offer to help them when Danielle bids the leader and attempts to carry Henry away. At the gypsy camp, they share their first kiss. 
Rodmilla and Marguerite plan to take Nicole's wedding gown and glass slippers for Marguerite to wear at the ball. When Marguerite insults Nicole's memory, Danielle attacks her and chases her. Marguerite retaliates by destroying the copy of Utopia that Auguste had given to Danielle. Jacqueline expresses sympathy for Danielle and criticizing Marguerite for her cruelty. 
Queen Marie holds a luncheon with Marguerite and Rodmilla and expresses curiosity about the mysterious girl who has taken Henry's fancies. Rodmilla, recognizing the name of Nicole, deduces that the girl is Danielle and reveals she's engaged.
Danielle cannot bring herself to tell Henry the truth so when he tells her she has changed him as a man, inspiring him to build a university. Rodmilla confronts Danielle about her deception and the whereabouts of the dress and slippers. Danielle strongly refuses to return them and Rodmilla locks her in the pantry. Maurice approaches Gustave in going to the ball to recruit Leonardo who helps Danielle escape and Leonardo, Paulette and Louise help prepare her in Nicole's attire. Danielle arrives determined to tell Henry the truth, but Rodmilla exposes her before she can. Furious at 