The Exorcist III is a 1990 American psychological horror film written for the screen and directed by William Peter Blatty, based on his 1983 novel Legion. It is the third installment in The Exorcist film series, and the final installment in Blatty's "Trilogy of Faith" after The Ninth Configuration (1980). The film stars George C. Scott, Ed Flanders, Jason Miller, Scott Wilson, Nicol Williamson, and Brad Dourif.
The Exorcist III is set fifteen years after the events of The Exorcist (1973), ignoring the events of the previous film. The film follows a character from the original film, Lieutenant William F. Kinderman, who investigates a series of demonic murders in Georgetown that have the hallmarks of the Gemini, a deceased serial killer. Blatty based aspects of the Gemini Killer on the real-life Zodiac Killer, one of several serial killers who enjoyed the original The Exorcist.
Blatty, who wrote the 1971 novel The Exorcist and the screenplay for its 1973 film adaptation, conceived The Exorcist III with The Exorcist director William Friedkin attached to direct. When Friedkin left the project, Blatty adapted the script into the novel Legion. Morgan Creek Productions bought the film rights, with Blatty as director. To Blatty's frustration, Morgan Creek demanded extensive last-minute changes, including the addition of an exorcism sequence for the climax. Though some of the original footage appears permanently lost, Scream Factory released a director's cut closer to Blatty's vision in 2016, with footage assembled from various sources.
The Exorcist III was released in the United States on August 17, 1990, by 20th Century Fox. The film received mixed reviews from critics and grossed $44 million domestically against a production budget of $11 million.


== Plot ==
In Georgetown, fifteen years after Regan MacNeil's exorcism in 1975, Father Dyer and Lieutenant William F. Kinderman reminisce about Father Damien Karras. The following night, an incident at a church occurs indicating the presence of something supernatural, which causes a crucifix to open its eyes. A man later walks on the streets speaking of a dream of "falling down a long flight of steps", suggesting that someone is committing murders linked to Karras' death.
The next morning, Kinderman is called to find the body of Thomas Kintry, a Black youth who had his head replaced with a cut-off statue of Jesus. Afterwards, a priest, Father Kanavan, is murdered during a false confessional one night, and is also decapitated. The fingerprints at the crime scenes do not match, indicating different people committed each murder. Dyer falls ill and ends up in hospital which houses a psychiatric ward for the elderly. He is also murdered and decapitated with all of his blood neatly placed in small bottles. After questioning patients in the mental ward, assisted by Sergeant Mel Atkins, Kinderman notices that the murders fit the modus operandi of James Venamun, "The Gemini Killer", a serial killer who was executed fifteen years prior.
Kinderman visits Father Riley, the head of the church council Kanavan and Dyer worked for that Kanavan himself ran fifteen years earlier. When discussing a connection between the murders, Kinderman believes the suspect to be possessed by the Gemini and questions Riley on his belief in possessions. Riley suggests he talk to Father Paul Morning, who handled an exorcism in the Philippines and that "his hair turned white overnight" as a result. Riley reveals a connection between the victims regarding the Regan MacNeil case: Kanavan allowing that exorcism to take place, Dyer being friends with the family, and Kintry's mother being the one who decoded a backwards message on a tape recording of Pazuzu – the entity who possessed Regan.
Afterwards, Kinderman questions another patient at the hospital, an elderly woman who knows nothing of Dyer's murder. He then visits the head of a psychiatric ward, Dr. Temple, who relates the history of one of his patients. The patient was 