The Exorcist: Believer is a 2023 American supernatural horror film directed by David Gordon Green, who co-wrote the screenplay with Peter Sattler from a story by Scott Teems, Danny McBride, and Green. The sixth installment in The Exorcist franchise, it serves as a direct sequel to The Exorcist (1973). The film stars Leslie Odom Jr., Lidya Jewett, Olivia O‘Neill in her film debut, Jennifer Nettles, Norbert Leo Butz, and Ann Dowd. Ellen Burstyn and Linda Blair reprise their roles from the original film. Its plot follows a photographer who must confront the nadir of evil when his daughter and her best friend are possessed.
Jason Blum served as a producer on the film through his Blumhouse Productions banner, alongside David and James G. Robinson through their Morgan Creek Entertainment banner, in association with executive producers Green and McBride's Rough House Pictures. The project began as a sequel to the original film in December 2020. Universal Pictures collaborated with Peacock to acquire distribution rights in July 2021 for $400 million, with intentions of launching a new trilogy of The Exorcist films. Principal photography took place between November 2022 and March 2023 on a production budget of $30 million.
The Exorcist: Believer was released in the United States on October 6, 2023. It grossed $137 million at the box office and received negative reviews from critics. Following the film's poor reception, a planned trilogy was scrapped the following year, with the franchise being rebooted.


== Plot ==
In Haiti, photographer Victor Fielding and his pregnant wife Sorenne are on their honeymoon until a massive earthquake ensues. Sorenne is gravely injured, and paramedics tell Victor he must choose to save either his wife or child.
Thirteen years later, Victor has lost faith in God since Sorenne's death, and raises his daughter Angela by himself in Georgia. One day after school, Angela ventures into the woods with her Baptist best friend Katherine West to perform a séance, attempting to contact Angela's mother. The girls go missing and a three-day manhunt ensues.
The girls are found in a barn on the third day; though traumatized, they seem relatively normal, having suffered only burns to their feet. As their conditions rapidly deteriorate, Victor admits Angela into the hospital where their nurse neighbor Ann attends to her. Ann, convinced that Angela is possessed after she reveals her knowledge of Ann's experience in the novitiate as a prospective nun and her secret abortion, gives Victor a memoir written by Chris MacNeil, who experienced a similar situation with her daughter Regan in 1973. Chris has spent her life researching exorcisms in every culture, becoming world-renowned for her studies. Regan became distant from her mother due to the memoir's success and has not seen her since. Victor meets with Chris, who visits Angela. Visiting Katherine's home, Chris performs a deliverance ritual on Katherine, who stabs Chris in the eyes with a cross, blinding her.
Victor, Ann, and Katherine's parents Tony and Miranda, reach out to the Church for an exorcism. Chris advises Victor to use methods from all different cultures, and the group seeks the help of Father Maddox, a local priest; Don Revans, the West family's Baptist pastor; Stuart, a Pentecostal preacher; and Dr. Beehibe, a rootwork healer. The group plans an ecumenical exorcism, but the local Catholic diocese forbids Maddox from participating as they feel the children are suffering from a psychiatric disorder. 
As the group proceeds with the exorcism, the demon reveals that Victor did not choose to keep Angela thirteen years ago; he chose Sorenne but she died from her injuries. The demon says they need to choose which of the girls gets to live and which one will die, and if a choice is not made, it will kill them both. While Miranda and Victor both refuse to forsake each other's child, Maddox, who has a change of heart, rejoins the group. Maddox reads from the Roman Ritual,