Eyes of Laura Mars is a 1978 American neo-noir supernatural horror thriller film directed by Irvin Kershner and starring Faye Dunaway, Tommy Lee Jones, Brad Dourif, René Auberjonois, and Raul Julia. It follows a New York City fashion photographer (Dunaway) who suddenly develops the clairvoyant ability to witness disturbing serial murders from the point of view of the killer. The screenplay was adapted (in collaboration with David Zelag Goodman) from a spec script titled Eyes, written by John Carpenter; it was Carpenter's first major studio film. H. B. Gilmour later wrote a novelization.
Producer Jon Peters, who was dating Barbra Streisand at the time, bought the screenplay as a starring vehicle for her, but Streisand eventually decided not to take the role because of "the kinky nature of the story", as Peters later explained. As a result, the role went to Dunaway, who had just won an Oscar for her performance in Network (1976). Streisand nevertheless felt that "Prisoner", the torch song from the film, would be a good power ballad vehicle for her. She recorded the song for the soundtrack and it peaked at number 21 on the Billboard Hot 100. Peters commissioned photographer Helmut Newton to provide the images that stand in for Laura Mars' portfolio in the film.  
Released on August 2, 1978, by Columbia Pictures, the film was a box-office success, grossing $20 million domestically. Some critics and film scholars have noted Eyes of Laura Mars as an American version of the Italian giallo with elements of the slasher film, and it has gone on to develop a small cult following.


== Plot ==
Laura Mars is a glamorous New York City fashion photographer who specializes in photographs featuring stylized violence, which attract controversy from the press and feminists who feel her work is exploitative. The night before the release of her photography book The Eyes of Mars, Laura has a dream about an assailant entering a woman's apartment, which she observes from the first-person perspective of the intruder. The following night at the book release party, Laura is notified that her photo editor, Doris, has been found murdered, her eyes gouged with an ice pick.
Shortly thereafter, during a photoshoot in Columbus Circle, Laura has another disturbing vision of a woman being stabbed to death outside her apartment, and stumbles upon the crime scene while passing by on the street. Laura informs police she witnessed the crime, but is unable to rationalize how. She later learns that the victim, Elaine, has been romantically involved with her ex-husband Michael, a writer who had been living in San Francisco but returned to New York.
John Neville, the lieutenant in charge of the case, shows Laura unpublished police photographs of unsolved murders that very closely mirror Laura's fashion shoots. Laura's visions continue, including visions of the killer stalking her and continuing to murder those around her. While developing photographs in her darkroom, Laura has another vision of her models Lulu and Michelle being brutally murdered. After attending Lulu and Michelle's funerals, Laura finds herself growing close to Neville, and the two begin a romance. He gives her a gun for her own protection.
Meanwhile, police consider Laura's driver Tommy, an ex-convict, and Michael to be their prime suspects in the string of serial killings. While attending a birthday party for her agent Donald, Laura receives a phone call from a drunken Michael, who is threatening suicide. Donald urges her against helping him, but Laura leaves the party. While driving to meet Michael, Laura has a vision of Donald being murdered by the killer, which causes her to crash her car. Later, Neville is informed that photographs of the murdered models have been found in Tommy's apartment. Police try to arrest him but shoot him dead when he tries to escape.
At her apartment, Laura is affected by a vision of the killer murdering Michael. The killer attempts to break in through her front door, b