The face is the front of an animal's head that features the eyes, nose and mouth, and through which animals express many of their emotions. The face is crucial for human identity, and damage such as scarring or developmental deformities may affect the psyche adversely.


== Structure ==
The front of the human head is called the face. It includes several distinct areas, of which the main features are:

The forehead, comprising the skin beneath the hairline, bordered laterally by the temples and inferiorly by eyebrows and ears
The eyes, sitting in the orbit and protected by eyelids and eyelashes
The distinctive human nose shape, nostrils, and nasal septum
The cheeks, covering the maxilla and mandible (or jaw), the extremity of which is the chin
The mouth, with the upper lip divided by the philtrum, sometimes revealing the teeth
Facial appearance is vital for human recognition and communication. Facial muscles in humans allow expression of emotions.
The face is itself a highly sensitive region of the human body and its expression may change when the brain is stimulated by any of the many human senses, such as touch, temperature, smell, taste, hearing,  movement, hunger, or visual stimuli.


=== Variability ===

The face is the feature which best distinguishes a person. Specialized regions of the human brain, such as the fusiform face area (FFA), enable facial recognition; when these are damaged, it may be impossible to recognize faces even of intimate family members. The pattern of specific organs, such as the eyes, or of parts of them, is used in biometric identification to uniquely identify individuals.


==== Shape ====

The shape of the face is influenced by the bone-structure of the skull, and each face is unique through the anatomical variation present in the bones of the viscerocranium (and neurocranium). The bones involved in shaping the face are mainly the maxilla, mandible, nasal bone and zygomatic bone. Also important are various soft tissues, such as fat, hair and skin (of which color may vary).
The face changes over time, and features common in children or babies, such as prominent buccal fat-pads disappear over time, their role in the infant being to stabilize the cheeks during suckling.
While the buccal fat-pads often diminish in size, the prominence of bones increase with age as they grow and develop.
Facial shape – such as facial symmetry – is an important determinant of beauty.


==== Other characteristics ====
Visible variable features of the face other than shapes and proportions include color (paleness, sun tan and genetic default pigmentation), hair (length, color, loss, graying), wrinkles, facial hair (e.g. beards), skin sagging, discolorations (dark spots, freckles and eye circles), pore-variabilities, skin blemishes (pimples, scars, burn marks). Many of these features can also vary over time due to aging, skin care, nutrition, the exposome (such as harmful substances of the general environment, workplace and cosmetics), psychological factors, and behavior (such as smoking, sleep, physical activity and sun damage).
Mechanisms underlying these include changes related to peptides (notably collagen), inflammation, production of various proteins (notably elastin and other ECM proteins), the structure of subcutaneous tissue, hormones, fibers (such as elastic fibers or elasticity) and the skin barrier.
The desire of many to look young for their age and/or attractive has led to the establishment of a large cosmetics industry, which is largely concerned with make-up that is applied on top of the skin (topically) to temporarily change appearance but it or dermatology also develop anti-aging products (and related products and procedures) that in some cases affect underlying biology and are partly applied preventively. Facial traits are also used in biometrics and there have been attempts at reproducible quantifications. Skin health is considered a major factor in human well-being and the perception of health in huma