Falling Down is a 1993 American psychological thriller film directed by Joel Schumacher, written by Ebbe Roe Smith and released by Warner Bros. in the United States on February 26, 1993. 
The film stars Michael Douglas as William Foster, a divorced and unemployed former defense engineer. It centers on Foster's trek across the city of Los Angeles as he attempts to reach the house of his estranged ex-wife in time for his daughter's birthday. Along the way, a series of encounters, both trivial and provocative, cause him to react with increasing violence and to make sardonic observations on life, poverty, the economy, and commercialism.
The film received mixed to positive reviews. It grossed $96 million against a $25 million budget, taking the top spot at the United States box office in its first two weeks of release.


== Plot ==
William "D-Fens" Foster is stuck in Los Angeles traffic on a hot day. After his air conditioning fails, he abandons his car and begins walking, carrying his briefcase.
At a convenience store, the Korean owner refuses to give change for a telephone call. Foster becomes agitated over the high prices. The owner grabs a baseball bat and demands Foster leave. Foster takes the bat and destroys several displays containing merchandise before leaving. Later, while resting on a hill, he is harassed by two gang members, who threaten him with a knife and demand his briefcase. Foster attacks them with the bat and takes their knife.
The gang members, now in a car with two associates, find Foster using a payphone. They open fire, hitting several surrounding bystanders, but not Foster. The driver crashes. Foster picks up a gun, shoots the one surviving gang member in the leg, and then leaves with their bag of weapons. Foster encounters a panhandler who harasses him for change, using fake stories that D-Fens calls him on.  D-Fens finally gives him the briefcase, which only contains his lunch.
At a fast food restaurant, Foster attempts to order breakfast, but is told they have switched to the lunch menu. After an argument with the rude manager, Foster pulls a gun and fires into the ceiling accidentally. After trying to reassure the frightened employees and customers, he orders lunch, but is annoyed when the burger looks nothing like the one on the menu. He leaves and tries to place a call from a phone booth, then shoots the booth to pieces after being hassled by someone who was waiting to use the phone. After Foster calls "home" again and states his intention to attend his daughter's birthday party, his ex-wife Beth notifies the police because she has a restraining order against him.
Sergeant Martin Prendergast, who is on his last day of duty before retirement, insists on investigating the events. Interviews with witnesses lead Prendergast to suspect that the same person is responsible for all of them. Foster's vanity license plate proves to be an important lead, because Prendergast remembers being in the same traffic jam as Foster earlier that day. Prendergast and his partner, Detective Sandra Torres, visit Foster's mother, who is surprised to learn that he lost his job. They realize Foster is heading toward his former family's home in Venice and rush to intercept him.
Foster passes a bank where a black man is protesting after being rejected for a loan. The man exchanges a glance with Foster and says, "Don't forget me," as he is escorted away by police. Foster stops at a military surplus store to buy boots. The owner, a homophobic Neo-Nazi, diverts Torres when she comes in. After Torres leaves, the owner offers Foster a rocket launcher and congratulates him for shooting at the restaurant. When Foster expresses distaste for the store owner's bigotry, the man becomes hostile and attempts to turn him over to the police, but Foster stabs him then shoots him dead. Foster changes into army clothes, takes the rocket launcher and leaves. 
Foster encounters a road repair crew who are not working and accuses them of doing unnecess