Fantasia 2000: An Original Walt Disney Records Soundtrack is the soundtrack to Fantasia 2000, a sequel to the animated anthology film Fantasia (1940). It features eight individual score suites for each segment and were named after the same title of these segments that are set to pieces of classical music. James Levine conducted six of the tracks from the film, which are performed by the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, while the rest of the two tracks (The Sorcerer's Apperentice, originally from the 1940 film, and Rhapsody in Blue) were originally conducted by Bruce Broughton for the film and were conducted by Levine for the soundtrack. The track was performed by the Philharmonia Orchestra. The album, released on November 30, 1999 by Walt Disney Records and Sony Classical Records, went on to reach the number one spot on the Billboard Top Classical Albums chart in July 2000.


== Background ==
Walt Disney initially planned to have Fantasia on continual release, replacing older classical segments featured in the film, with newer ones so that audiences would never see the same film twice, but was dropped following its box office failure and mixed critical response, with preliminary work on new segments were halted. After late-1980s, the sequel for the film was revived shortly after Michael Eisner became chief executive officer of The Walt Disney Company in 1984, when Walt's nephew, vice chairman Roy E. Disney, suggested it to him at a lunch. Disney once asked André Previn to work on a Fantasia film but Previn declined after he learned it was to feature songs by the Beatles rather than classical music, whereas Eisner approached Leonard Bernstein with the same idea, but while he seemed enthusiastic, Bernstein died before production began. After the 1990 reissue of the film became success, and record pre-orders for the film's home video in 1991, Eisner greenlit the sequel for the film following public interest in the franchise. Disney and Walt Disney Feature Animation president Thomas Schumacher invited Metropolitan Opera conductor James Levine and manager Peter Gelb to a meeting in September 1991, following search of a suitable conductor. Disney recalled: "I asked James what his thought was on a three minute version of Beethoven's fifth symphony. He paused and went 'I think the right three minutes would be beautiful'".


== Recording ==
The music to The Sorcerer's Apprentice was already recorded on January 9, 1938, for the first film at Culver Studios, California with Leopold Stokowski conducting a group of session musicians. The Disney engineers collaborated with RCA Corporation for using multiple audio channels which allowed any desired dynamic balance to be achieved upon playback, and the stage was altered acoustically with double plywood semi-circular partitions that separated the orchestra into five sections to increase reverberation. Though as the production of Fantasia developed, the setup used for The Sorcerer's Apprentice was abandoned for different multi-channel recording arrangements. The recording of Rhapsody in Blue used in the film is an edited version of Ferde Grofé's orchestration of the piece performed by the Philharmonia Orchestra conducted by Bruce Broughton. The shortened version was made by cutting 125 bars of piano solo in three different places. A recording of James Levine conducting both pieces with the Philharmonia appears on the film's soundtrack.
The remaining six pieces were recorded at the Medinah Temple in Chicago, performed by the Chicago Symphony Orchestra conducted by Levine. Pines of Rome was re-arranged in 1993 by Bruce Coughlin, who reduced the four-movement piece by cutting the second movement and trimming sections of the third and fourth movements. The piece was recorded on March 28, 1994. The second recording involved Symphony No. 5, Carnival of the Animals, and Pomp and Circumstance, on April 25, 1994. Carnival of the Animals, Finale uses two pianos played by Gail Niwa and Philip Sabransky. Pomp a