Far and Away is a 1992 American epic Western romantic adventure drama film directed by Ron Howard from a screenplay by Bob Dolman and a story by Howard and Dolman. It stars Tom Cruise and Nicole Kidman. This was the last cinematography credit for Mikael Salomon before he moved on to a directing career.  The music score was by John Williams. It was screened out of competition at the 1992 Cannes Film Festival.
Cruise and Kidman, who were married at the time, play Irish immigrants seeking their fortune in 1890s America, eventually taking part in the Land Run of 1893.
This was Cyril Cusack's final film before his death the following year.


== Plot ==
In Ireland in 1892, when tenant farmers worked land that they could never own and paid unfairly high rents to their wealthy landlords, Joseph Donnelly dreamed of owning his own land. After his father dies, their family home is burned down by their landlord Daniel Christie’s men, due to unpaid rent and facing evictions. Joseph travels to Daniel’s home to kill him in revenge, but he only injures himself. Daniel’s wife, Nora, and his daughter, Shannon, nurse Joseph back to health so that he can be hanged for the attempted murder.
Nora tries to mold Shannon into a refined lady, but Shannon often rebels. She reveals to Joseph that she aspires to go to America, where land is being given away for free. When Joseph tries to flee the Christie home, he gets into a confrontation with Stephen Chase, the Christies' financial manager, who challenges Joseph to a duel. The next morning, Shannon runs away from home, convinces Joseph to come with her as her servant and protector, and saves him from the duel.  
On a ship bound for America, Shannon and Joseph meet Mr. McGuire, who confirms Shannon’s story about land being given away for free in Oklahoma. He adds that, once landing in America, they will have to travel a thousand miles to get there and must claim their desired land in a race. Shannon divulges that she has a collection of silver spoons that will cover the expenses needed to get to Oklahoma.
Upon their arrival in Boston, McGuire is shot in the street and Shannon loses her spoons in the chaos. Mike Kelly, an Irish ward boss, finds jobs for Joseph and Shannon and gives them a room to rent. Joseph also becomes a regular in bare-knuckle boxing matches at Kelly's club to make extra cash. Over the following weeks, Joseph and Shannon struggle to earn money and adapt to their new living situation. Romantic tension flares between them, especially after Grace, a dancer at Kelly’s club, shows interest in Joseph, making Shannon jealous.
One night, Joseph discovers that Shannon has gone to Kelly's club to dance burlesque and earn extra money herself. When he storms in to take her home, Kelly and the other Irishmen there beg him to fight an Italian contender, promising to split the two hundred-dollar winnings with Joseph if he triumphs. This would be enough to get him and Shannon to Oklahoma, so Joseph agrees. Joseph appears to be winning the fight until he notices one of his backers groping Shannon. He pushes through the crowd to free her, but is pushed back into the ring, where he is defeated by a sucker punch while distracted. As payback for the loss, Kelly and his men take all of the money the couple had saved and throw Shannon and Joseph out into the streets.
Cold and starving, the pair stay in a seemingly abandoned house. They share a tender moment and a kiss before the owners of the house return and chase them away, shooting Shannon in the back. Joseph, knowing the Christies are looking for her in Boston, brings Shannon to where they are staying. Deciding Shannon will be better cared for by them, Joseph leaves despite his feelings for her, heading west to the Ozarks on his own and finding work laying train track. Months pass, and one day he sees a wagon train. Knowing it is headed for Oklahoma, Joseph abandons the railroad and joins the wagon train, arriving in time for the Land Run of 1893.
Josep