A Farewell to Arms is a novel by American writer Ernest Hemingway, set during the Italian campaign of World War I. First published in 1929, it is a first-person account of an American, Frederic Henry, serving as a lieutenant (Italian: tenente) in the ambulance corps of the Italian Army. The novel describes a love affair between the American expatriate and an English nurse, Catherine Barkley.
Its publication ensured Hemingway's place as a modern American writer of considerable stature. The book became his first best-seller and has been called "the premier American war novel from [...] World War I". The title might be taken from a 16th‑century poem of the same name by the English dramatist George Peele.
The novel has been adapted a number of times: initially for the stage in 1930; as a film in 1932, and again in 1957; and as a three-part television miniseries in 1966. The film In Love and War, made in 1996, depicts Hemingway's life in Italy as an ambulance driver in events prior to his writing of A Farewell to Arms.


== Characters ==
Lieutenant Frederic Henry: An American serving in the Italian Army as an officer directing ambulance drivers.
Miss Catherine Barkley: A nurse and love interest of Henry.
Lieutenant Rinaldi: An eccentric Army surgeon serving near the front lines who takes a brotherly interest in Henry.
The priest: An army chaplain, often has discussions about God and war with Henry.
Helen Ferguson: A friend and fellow nurse of Miss Catherine.
Miss Van Campen: The officious superintendent of nurses at the American hospital in Milan. She and Henry immediately dislike each other.
Miss Gage: An unconventional nurse at the American hospital in Milan who befriends Henry.
Major Valentini: A brisk, cheerful and competent surgeon who operates on Henry's wounded knee in Milan.
Gino: A very likeable Italian soldier whose vocal patriotism nonetheless bothers Henry.
Bonello: An ambulance driver under Henry's command who deserts to find safety by being captured by the enemy.
Piani: An ambulance driver who stays with Henry out of personal loyalty.
Passini: An ambulance driver killed in the mortar attack that wounds Henry.
Aymo: An ambulance driver killed by straggling guards of the retreat's main line.
Emilio: A bartender in the town of Stresa who helps them flee to Switzerland.
Count Greffi: A ninety-four-year-old nobleman, having some past acquaintance with Henry.
Ralph Simmons and Edgar Saunders: Two journeyman opera singers studying and performing in Italy under Italian stage names.


== Plot summary ==
The novel is divided into five sections, or "books". Frederic Henry narrates the story in the first-person.


=== Book One ===
Lieutenant Frederic Henry, an American medic, is serving in the Italian Army. He speaks Italian. The novel begins during the First World War. It is the start of winter, when a cholera epidemic kills thousands of soldiers. Frederic has a brief visit to Gorizia, where he meets with other army fellows and the priest. He finds there are two brothels –  one for officers and the other for lower-rank soldiers. On his return, he shares his experience with his friend, Surgeon Rinaldi, who is about the same age as Frederic. Rinaldi is fond of beautiful women. He has fallen in love with an English nurse named Catherine Barkley, though not so seriously. Rinaldi takes Frederic to a British hospital, where Frederic is introduced to Catherine. Frederic feels attracted towards her. She tells him about her fiancé, who was killed in the battle, and also about her feeling uncomfortable in the rain, as it starts to rain. Frederic tries to kiss her, but she refuses and slaps him, feeling sorry thereafter. Eventually they kiss, as now she feels somewhat inclined towards him. Frederic, with his fellow drivers (Passini, Manera, Gordini and Gavuzzi) takes the ambulance in war. Passini is killed in a mortar attack, whereas Frederic is severely wounded in the knee on the Italian front and is sent to the hospital.


=== Book Two =