Father of the Bride Part II is a 1995 American comedy film starring Steve Martin, Diane Keaton, and Martin Short. It is a sequel to Father of the Bride, remake of the 1951 film Father's Little Dividend which was the sequel to the original 1950 titular film, and fourth installment overall in the Father of the Bride franchise.


== Plot ==
Four years after the events of the first film, Annie Banks tells the family that she is pregnant. George begins to panic, believing himself too young to be a grandfather. He has his assistant make a list of people who are older than him, dyes his hair brown, and after the roof leaks, decides he and Nina should sell the home their children have grown up in if one more thing goes wrong with it.
Termites strike the house two weeks later. George sells the house to the Habibs without telling Nina. At dinner, after discussing whether the baby's last name will be hyphenated or not, George changes the subject by revealing the house has been sold. Nina is livid, as she and George have to be out in ten days and have no place to go. The Bankses stay at the mansion owned by Bryan's parents. As the MacKenzies are on a cruise in the Caribbean, the Bankses have to deal with their Dobermans, much to the chagrin of George, who is still paranoid from a previous mishap with them. Nina begins experiencing symptoms that bring up the concern of menopause. The following day, they visit the doctor and discover that, actually, Nina is pregnant, too.
Following this unexpected news, they have a chance meeting with Franck, Annie's former wedding planner, who is elated at both women expecting. Driving home, Nina and George have differing perspectives on the prospect of becoming new parents again. George switches gears, now believing he is too old to be a father again. His feelings come to a head when he and Nina go to Annie's and Bryan's house to announce their news. Nina brings his insensitivity to light and tells him not to come home.
Out for a walk, George notices that the street to their old house is blocked off and sees a demolition crew with a wrecking ball at the house, inferring that Mr. Habib plans to demolish it. Upset, George runs in and tries to stop them. He pleads with Mr. Habib not to tear down the house since he is going to be a father again, as there is sentimental value to it. George realizes that if he will have another child, he wants to raise it in the house in which his family grew up. When George offers to buy the house back, Habib agrees on the condition that George pay him $100,000 up front. George reluctantly gives in. The Bankses then move back into their house. As a way to further apologize to Nina, George hires Franck to do a double baby shower. A few weeks before the baby is due Bryan is called away to an emergency meeting in Japan, leaving Annie in George and Nina's care.
Meanwhile, Nina and Annie are moving along in their simultaneous pregnancies and need constant care from George. Matty and Franck take over when George is away at work. Franck turns a simple redecoration of Nina and George's new baby's nursery into a full-scale renovation/addition, which he calls, 'the baby's suite'. Eventually, all the stress and nights of sleep deprivation wear George out. When the suite is revealed, Franck offers George 'Vatsnik', sleeping pills from his native country, after George reveals he has not been getting enough sleep. George takes two pills which proves to be too high of a dosage and passes out before dinner. The family becomes worried, which is only increased when Annie goes into labor.
Franck takes over the role of driving the family to the hospital with a barely coherent George in tow. After being mistaken for a patient in need of a prostate exam, George regains full consciousness. Nina goes into labor shortly after they arrive at the hospital. George is cynical about the female obstetrician who fills in because their own is unavailable. Despite wanting his grandchild to be delivered by the 