Fearless (Taylor's Version) is the first re-recorded album by the American singer-songwriter Taylor Swift, released on April 9, 2021, by Republic Records. It is part of Swift's re-recording projects following the 2019 dispute over the ownership of her back catalog released by Big Machine Records. Fearless (Taylor's Version) comprises re-recordings of the tracks on Swift's second studio album, Fearless (2008), the soundtrack single "Today Was a Fairytale" for the 2010 film Valentine's Day, and six previously unreleased "From the Vault" tracks.
Fearless (Taylor's Version) is a country pop album composed of acoustic instruments such as guitars, banjo, fiddle, and strings. The lyrics are about Swift's adolescent reflections and feelings on love and heartbreak. Swift and Christopher Rowe produced the re-recorded tracks, and they feature identical arrangements as with the original but their instruments and vocals are more defined and controlled. Jack Antonoff and Aaron Dessner worked with Swift to produce the vault tracks, which have an indie- and-electronic-oriented soundscape brought by synthesizers and drum programming. Two vault tracks feature guest vocals from Maren Morris and Keith Urban respectively.
The album was preceded by "Love Story (Taylor's Version)", the re-recording of Fearless's lead single "Love Story", and the vault tracks "You All Over Me" and "Mr. Perfectly Fine". Fearless (Taylor's Version) topped the charts in Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Critics praised the re-recorded album for what they deemed an enhanced production quality that brought a nostalgic feel, but some considered vault tracks are insubstantial. Many attributed Swift's enduring popularity to the lyrical sentiments that appealed to a broad audience, and the media highlighted Fearless (Taylor's Version) as a significant event contributing to a wider industry discourse over artists' rights.


== Background ==

Taylor Swift signed a publishing contract with Sony/ATV Tree Publishing in 2004, at 14 years old, to become a songwriter, and a recording contract with Nashville-based independent record label Big Machine the next year to become a country singer. Her self-titled debut studio album (2006) was the longest-charting album on the Billboard 200 of the 2000s, and it established Swift as one of country music's rising stars. Her second studio album, Fearless, was released on November 11, 2008. A country pop album, Fearless followed the country styling of Swift's debut and incorporated radio-friendly pop crossover and pop rock elements. It spent 11 weeks atop the Billboard 200 and, supported by the pop-radio hits "Love Story" and "You Belong with Me", catapulted Swift into mainstream prominence beyond the country-music scene. Critics lauded Swift's songwriting for portraying earnest teenage feelings, and musicologist James E. Perone commented that Fearless transformed her status from a prodigy to a "singer-songwriter superstar". The most-awarded country album in history, it won Album of the Year at the Academy of Country Music Awards, the Country Music Association Awards, and the Grammy Awards.
As part of Swift's contract, Big Machine released her next four studio albums, from Speak Now (2010) to Reputation (2017). She parted ways with the label after her contract expired in 2018 and thereafter signed a new contract with Republic Records, a division of Universal Music Group. In 2019, the talent manager Scooter Braun and his company Ithaca Holdings acquired Big Machine Records. The masters of Swift's Big Machine-released albums, including Fearless, were effectively transferred to Braun, which resulted in a public dispute between Swift and Braun. Swift denounced the purchase and began re-recording her first six studio albums, including Fearless, in November 2020. By re-recording the albums, Swift had full ownership of the new masters, which enabled her to control the licensing of her songs for commercial use an