A Few Good Men is a play by Aaron Sorkin, first produced on Broadway by David Brown in 1989. It tells the story of military lawyers at a court-martial who uncover a high-level conspiracy in the course of defending their clients, two United States Marines accused of murder.
It opened on Broadway at the Music Box Theatre in New York on November 15, 1989, in a production directed by Don Scardino, with Tom Hulce as Lieutenant Junior Grade Daniel Kaffee, Megan Gallagher as Lieutenant commander Joanne Galloway, and Stephen Lang as Colonel Jessep. Michael O'Hare replaced Lang as Jessep later in the run.
Sorkin adapted his work into a screenplay for the 1992 film of the same name.


== Plot ==

Private William Santiago, a United States Marine at the Cuban naval base of Guantanamo Bay, is a weak Marine who gets along poorly with his fellow Marines and has gone outside the chain of command to request a transfer. Although Lieutenant Colonel Matthew Markinson requests that Santiago be transferred, Base Commander Colonel Nathan Jessep instructs Lieutenant Jonathan James Kendrick, Santiago's platoon commander, to "train" Santiago. Soon afterward, Santiago dies. He was murdered, and Marines Lance Corporal Harold Dawson and Private First Class Louden Downey will stand trial.
United States Navy JAG Corps investigator and lawyer Lieutenant Commander Joanne Galloway believes Dawson and Downey may have carried out a "code red" order: a brutal extrajudicial punishment. Santiago was ostensibly killed in retaliation for naming Dawson in a fenceline shooting into Cuba, but Galloway believes Santiago was killed as part of a premeditated plan. Galloway wants to represent them, but the case is assigned to fellow Navy officer and lawyer Lieutenant Junior Grade Daniel Kaffee, a bumbling attorney who enjoys accepting plea deals. Kaffee's casual attitude bothers Galloway, while Galloway annoys Kaffee with her meddling.
At Guantanamo Bay, Kaffee and Galloway interrogate Colonel Jessep and others. Jessep asserts that Santiago was supposed to be transferred the following day. Dawson and Downey reject Kaffee's offer to enter into a plea agreement with US Marine Captain Jack Ross, the prosecutor, claiming that Kendrick gave them the "code red" order and that they never intended for Santiago to die. Dawson thinks it is dishonorable for Kaffee to opt for a plea agreement rather than stand their ground in court. Kaffee wants to be terminated from his position as counsel because he believes the case is worthless. Kaffee suddenly submits a not guilty plea on behalf of the accused at the arraignment. He explains to Galloway that the reason he was selected to handle the case was because it was anticipated that he would take a plea deal and the case would then be closed. 
Markinson tells Kaffee during their covert meeting that Jessep never requested Santiago be transferred. According to the defense, Dawson was passed up for promotion because he had given food to a Marine who had been ordered to go without meals. The defense presents a favorable picture of Dawson and shows that "code reds" had previously been authorized through Downey. On the other hand, Downey claims under cross-examination that he was not present when Dawson allegedly received the "code red" instruction. Markinson kills himself before he can testify because he feels guilty about not protecting a Marine under his charge.
Kaffee thinks the case has been lost without Markinson's testimony. He complains that he fought the case rather than accepting a settlement as he returns home drunk. Galloway urges Kaffee to ask Jessep to testify despite the possibility of facing court-martial for defying a superior officer.
When Kaffee brings up a discrepancy in Jessep's testimony in court at the Washington Navy Yard—that his Marines never disobey orders and that Santiago was to be relocated for his own safety—he is disturbed. Jessep spars under Kaffee's interrogation. Considering that Jessep had told his men to leave 