The Final Destination (also known as Final Destination 4) is a 2009 American 3D supernatural horror film written by Eric Bress and directed by David R. Ellis. It is the fourth installment in the Final Destination film series and the second standalone sequel after Final Destination 3 (2006), and stars Bobby Campo, Shantel VanSanten, and Mykelti Williamson. Produced by New Line Cinema, the film follows a group of people after they escape a deadly accident during a stock car race, with Death stalking and killing them one by one.
After the commercial success of Final Destination 3, a fourth film entered in development and was planned to be in 3D, with Bress writing the script. The script impressed producer Craig Perry and New Line Cinema enough to green-light a fourth installment. James Wong was on board to direct, but because of scheduling conflicts, he decided to drop out. Consequently, the studio executives opted for David R. Ellis to return because of his work on Final Destination 2, who personally accepted because of the 3D. Filming began in March 2008 and ended late May in the same year.
The Final Destination was theatrically released on August 28, 2009, by Warner Bros. Pictures and New Line Cinema. It is the first film in the series to be shot in HD 3D, and is currently the highest-grossing Final Destination film, earning $187 million worldwide, but received generally negative reviews from critics. The fifth film in the franchise, Final Destination 5, was released in August 2011.


== Plot ==
In 2009, college student Nick O'Bannon watches an auto race with his girlfriend Lori Milligan and their friends Hunt Wynorski and Janet Cunningham at the McKinley Speedway for their semester break. Nick suffers a premonition of an accident from the racetrack that sends debris into the grandstand, causing its front stretch to collapse. When Nick panics, a scuffle breaks out and several people leave the stadium, including Lori, Hunt, Janet, racist tow truck driver Carter Daniels, mother Samantha Lane, mechanic Andy Kewzer, his girlfriend Nadia Monroy, and security guard George Lanter. As Nadia berates the group, a stray wheel flies out of the stadium and decapitates her.
On one of the nights following the accident, Daniels drives to George's house to burn a cross on his lawn, blaming the guard for preventing him from saving his wife Cynthia at the speedway, but his tow truck ignites him and causes him to be dragged down the street before it explodes. The next day, Samantha is leaving a beauty salon when a rock propelled by a lawnmower is shot through her eye, killing her. After learning of their deaths and similar disasters parallel to the speedway's, Nick becomes convinced that Death is after them. He and Lori return to the speedway with George's help to find the next survivor, Andy, but he is killed at the mechanic shop the next day when a carbon dioxide tank launches him through a metal grid fence. After Nick predicts that Hunt and Janet's deaths will involve water, George and Lori find the latter, who is trapped in a malfunctioning car wash, and narrowly manage to rescue her. However, Nick arrives too late to save Hunt, who unintentionally activated a country club's pool drainage system and ended up being disemboweled by the drain pipe.
Four days later, Nick realizes from a news report that another spectator, Jonathan Groves, was rescued after the speedway's collapse; Jonathan had died in the premonition after being asked to move seats, but this never ended up happening due to Nick intervening. Nick and George track Jonathan down at a hospital where he was recovering from the accident, only to witness him being crushed by an overflowing bathtub falling through the ceiling. As they leave, Nick receives a premonition of a multitude of explosions at the mall that leads to Janet and Lori's deaths, but fails to save George, who is run over by a speeding ambulance before Nick could warn him. Nick runs back to the mall to try and stop the e