First Blood is a 1972 American action-thriller novel by David Morrell about a troubled homeless Vietnam War veteran, known only by his last name of Rambo, who wages a brutal one-man war against local and state police in Kentucky. It was adapted into the 1982 film First Blood starring Sylvester Stallone, which ended up spawning an entire media franchise around Rambo.


== Plot ==
A homeless Vietnam veteran known only by his last name, Rambo, wanders into Madison, a town in Basalt County, Kentucky, and is intercepted by local police chief Wilfred Teasle, who drives him to the town limits and orders him to stay out. When Rambo repeatedly returns, Teasle arrests him on charges of vagrancy and resisting arrest, getting permission to hold him for 35 days in jail. Kept inside a claustrophobia-inducing cell, Rambo experiences a flashback to his days as a prisoner of war in Vietnam and attacks the police as they attempt to forcibly cut his hair and shave him. Rambo escapes, killing an officer in the process, steals a motorcycle, and hides in the nearby mountains.
Teasle, not wanting the state police to capture Rambo before he does, gets a helicopter pilot to search the woods and organizes a posse consisting of himself, his officers, and Orval Kellerman, an experienced hunter with a pack of trained dogs. Meanwhile, Rambo stumbles across an illegal still and persuades the moonshiners operating it to provide him with clothes and food; he also talks them into giving him a lever-action rifle. The posse catches up with Rambo, who is cornered by the helicopter and fires on it in self-defense; the pilot panics and loses control, causing the chopper to crash and explode. When the posse arrives, Rambo shoots two of Kellerman's dogs; the frightened animals leap off a cliff, taking an officer with them, and Kellerman is fatally wounded while going to check on them.
Teasle's officers start firing wildly and waste most of their ammunition trying to kill Rambo; several desert their posts and try to return to town as a cloudburst stirs up. Rambo obtains a hunting knife, canteen, and pistol, ambushing the fleeing officers and killing them one by one until only Teasle remains. The chief loses his gun, but Rambo's caution, and the rain help Teasle escape alive. He is rescued by the state police and, once his condition is stabilized, gets the National Guard to send detachments of troops to assist with the manhunt.
It is revealed to Teasle that Rambo was a member of an elite Green Beret unit in Vietnam; he has extensive experience in guerrilla warfare and survival tactics and received the Medal of Honor. Since his discharge from the Army, he has been unable to hold down a job, thus forcing him to live as a drifter. Teasle, bitter over the deaths of his men but also finding himself sympathetic to Rambo's plight, insists on helping capture him even though his health is beginning to deteriorate from his recent injuries. Rambo also finds himself torn between his instinct to keep fighting and his sense of self-preservation; he refuses to take the opportunity to escape because the rush of battle is too much for him to resist.
Captain Sam Trautman, the director of the Green Beret program, helps reorganize the National Guard units to track Rambo, who is struggling with his wounds and starving. Two civilians hunting him alert the National Guard to his presence before being killed. Rambo seals himself inside an abandoned mine and is bitten and scratched by a bat colony while looking for a way out. Teasle collapses, is taken back to town and wakes up in his office after having a vision that reveals that Rambo is heading to Madison. Having stolen a police car and dynamite, Rambo starts blowing up most of the town, including the police headquarters, and sets fire to two gas stations. 
Teasle surprises Rambo and shoots him in the chest, but is himself wounded in the stomach by a return shot. A dying Rambo flees town, and Teasle follows. As Trautman and the National Guar