Stadler FLIRT (Fast Light Intercity and Regional Train; German: Flinker Leichter Intercity- und Regional-Triebzug) is a passenger multiple unit trainset made by Stadler Rail of Switzerland. The baseline design of FLIRT is an electric multiple unit articulated trainset that can come in units of two to twelve cars with two to six motorized axles. The maximum speed is 200 km/h (125 mph). Standard floor height is 57 cm (22+7⁄16 in), but 78 cm (30+11⁄16 in) high floors are also available for platform heights of 76 cm (29+15⁄16 in).
The FLIRT train was originally developed for the Swiss Federal Railways and was first delivered in 2004. The trains quickly became a success and were ordered by operators in Algeria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Canada, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Finland, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Lithuania, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Serbia, Slovenia, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States. As of October 2021, more than 2500 units have been sold.
Aside from being electric (EMU), the FLIRT is available in diesel-electric (DEMU), battery-electric, bi-mode EDMU, tri-mode diesel/overhead electric/battery, and more recently hydrogen fuel cell versions. Bi-mode models were first ordered by Italy's Aosta Valley region as (BTR.813), then by Greater Anglia as the British Rail Class 755, and Norske Tog,. Tri-mode versions were first ordered by Wales & Borders. Hydrogen fuel-cell versions were first ordered by Arrow in San Bernardino County, California, USA.


== Specifications ==
The FLIRT is a new generation of multiple units, even though the first versions resembles GTW vehicles. The trains can have two to six sections and electric variants are available for all commonly used power supply systems (AC and DC) as well as standard and broad gauge. It has Jacobs bogies shared between the individual coaches, with wide walk-through gangways. The floor height at the entrances can be chosen by the operator, providing level boarding at most stations. Automatic couplers of either Schwab type (on all Swiss units) or Scharfenberg type at both ends of the train allow up to four trains to be connected.

All FLIRT variations use IGBT-based traction converters from ABB, which drive the TSA induction motors located in the two bogies at either end of the train. On the two-section trains, only one bogie is powered, while on longer versions it is possible to have a third powered bogie in the middle, found on the trains for Vy in Norway and for PKP Intercity in Poland. Each bogie usually has a continuous power rating of 1,000 kW (1,300 hp) giving a typical four-section train 2,000 kW (2,700 hp) total power output as well as maximum power output of 2,600 kW (3,500 hp) over a short time. Depending on the number of powered bogies, the length and weight, they will reach top speeds between 120 and 200 km/h (75 and 124 mph) (typically 160 km/h or 99 mph). Acceleration also varies between 0.8 and 1.2 m/s2 (2.6 and 3.9 ft/s2).
The diesel, bi-mode electro-diesel, hybrid diesel-battery, battery, and hydrogen fuel cell versions are essentially baseline design with an additional non-passenger car inserted in the trainset – called a PowerPack car – which contains the electricity generating and storage components, such as diesel engines and batteries, that provide electricity to the train to run "off-wire". It has a gangway through the centre to allow passengers to pass between the two parts of the train.
In TEXRail application, the diesel power module contains two 520 kW (697 hp) Deutz AG TCD 16.0 V8 that complies with US EPA Tier 4 emission standard.
On March 22, 2024 Stadler’s Flirt H2 hydrogen multiple unit has secured a Guinness World Record for the longest distance achieved by a hydrogen fuel cell multiple unit without refueling.


== Operators ==


=== Algeria ===

On 18 March 2006, the Algerian operator SNTF announced that it had ordered 64 four-car EMUs for suburban services in Algiers. The trains were delivered between 2008 and 2