Force 10 from Navarone is a 1978 British war film loosely based on Alistair MacLean's 1968 novel of the same name. It is a sequel to the 1961 film The Guns of Navarone. The parts of Mallory and Miller are played by Robert Shaw (who died before the film was released), and Edward Fox, succeeding in the roles originally portrayed by Gregory Peck and David Niven. It was directed by Guy Hamilton and also stars Harrison Ford, Carl Weathers, Barbara Bach, Franco Nero (in a "plastic surgery" role previously played by Tutte Lemkow), and Richard Kiel.
The film gets its title from the Alistair MacLean book of the same name, but bears so little resemblance to the novel that MacLean loosely adapted part of the screenplay into his 1982 book Partisans.


== Plot ==
In 1943, during the middle of the Second World War (1939–1945), Major Keith Mallory and Sergeant Donovan "Dusty" Miller from the  British Army  Special Forces / commandos are sent to find and eliminate Nicolai, a Nazi German spy who previously betrayed the earlier Guns of Navarone mission to the occupying Nazi Germans  in Greece, of the Aegean Sea cliffside artillery battery fortification. Nicolai is now believed to have successfully infiltrated the anti-Nazi  communist/Marxist guerrilla Yugoslav Partisans bands. The German spy is now known to the guerrilla Partisans as a "Captain Lescovar". To get to Yugoslavia east across the Adriatic Sea from Allied armies in Allied-occupied southern Italy to the Balkans Mountains peninsula of Southeastern Europe. The two men now pair up with "Force 10", an American Army sabotage commando unit led by United States Army Rangers, Lieutenant Colonel Mike Barnsby and steal a British Royal Air Force  Lancaster bomber from a British RAF  air field. They are joined by Weaver, a U.S. Army Medical Corps sergeant who was arrested by the Military Police, and escaped, only to be shot down by the Luftwaffe. Only Barnsby, Mallory, Miller, Weaver, and Lieutenant Doug Reynolds (Angus MacInnes) make it out and escape the crippled plane in a crash landing.
The survivors come upon a band of men they believe to be the Yugoslavian Partisans, who are mostly Communist, and probable allies. But the unit is later suddenly trapped and surprised as their helpers are actually revealed to be opposing pro-German collaborationist Chetniks, led by Captain Drazak. Taken prisoner, they tell the German army commander in control of the area, Major Schroeder, that they are actually Allied deserters. To keep Schroeder from opening Miller's suitcase that he's carrying, stuffed with high explosives, Mallory claims it contains the newly developed and top-secret penicillin, which will spoil if opened and exposed. The next morning, the prisoners are told that Schroeder has already opened the case, finding it full of firewood. They improvise an elaborated second excuse, claiming they buried the drug samples. Schroeder sends Barnsby and Mallory to retrieve them under the guard of his concubine woman guerrilla fighter Maritza along with three soldiers. Miller, Weaver, and Reynolds are left behind in camp.
Far from camp, Maritza switches over loyalties, revealing herself to be actually a true partisan and the person who had originally hid the explosives from the suitcase. She directs Mallory and Barnsby further off towards the real Partisan camp, which happens to be under the command of her father, Major Petrovich. Mallory and Barnsby escape and meet another patrol of real Yugoslav Partisans led by Lescovar, who has gained Petrovich's trust. Mallory and Barnsby are taken to their camp, which lies near a hydroelectric power generating dam. An arch bridge spanning the deep river ravine is set to be used by a coming German force for an impending assault on the partisans camp, who have been unable to destroy the bridge before. Barnsby reveals that the bridge is actually Force 10's assigned mission target.
Mallory convinces Petrovich to mount a rescue mission of demolitions expert Miller back at