Forrest Alexander Gump (born June 6, 1944 in Greenbow, Alabama) is the title protagonist of the 1986 novel by Winston Groom, Robert Zemeckis' 1994 film of the same name, and Gump and Co., the written sequel to Groom's novel.
In the film, Forrest is a former college football All-American kick returner, Vietnam veteran and Medal of Honor recipient, champion international ping pong player, businessman, and philanthropist whose accomplishments and pursuits bring him to experience critical events in the 20th century, and meet various significant people, including Elvis Presley, John Lennon, and U.S. Presidents John F. Kennedy, Lyndon B. Johnson, and Richard Nixon.
He exudes a compassionate, optimistic, and tenacious attitude in the face of countless setbacks. Thriving from the strong upbringing of his mother, he strives to help every person he meets despite his strong naïveté and some people's negative perception of him due to his lack of intellect. Throughout his life, he maintains a sincere love for his childhood friend Jennifer Curran, whom he affectionately calls Jenny and eventually comes to marry.
Tom Hanks portrayed the character in the film and earned his second consecutive Academy Award for Best Actor for his performance (Hanks won the previous year for Philadelphia), while Michael Conner Humphreys portrayed Forrest as a child.
In 2019, Forrest Gump was named the 27th greatest movie character of all time by Empire magazine.


== Fictional character biography ==


=== Early years ===
Forrest was born near the small town of Greenbow, Alabama. His father was absent during his life, and his mother said he was "on vacation". His mother named Forrest after their ancestor Nathan Bedford Forrest, a Scotch-Irish American and a noted Confederate general in the American Civil War and the first Grand Wizard of the Ku Klux Klan. She intended his name to be a reminder that "sometimes we all do things that, well, just don't make no sense".
Forrest was born with strong legs but a crooked spine. He was forced to wear leg braces which made walking difficult and running nearly impossible. He also had a relatively low I.Q. of 75, which nearly prevented him from being accepted into public school; his mother managed to get the principal to reconsider by letting him sleep with her. Despite his physical and mental challenges, Forrest's mother told him not to let anyone tell him he was different, telling him "stupid is as stupid does".
Forrest and his mother lived in a large house just outside of Greenbow. They made money by renting out rooms to travelers. One of their guests was a young Elvis Presley. Forrest liked dancing to Elvis' music and his leg braces gave him a unique dancing style that would inspire Elvis's "hip dancing", for his song "Hound Dog".
On the bus ride on Forrest's first day of school, Forrest met Jenny Curran and was instantly taken by her. "I had never seen anything so beautiful in my life," he would later say of her, "she was like an angel." The two became close friends, often playing around a large nearby tree. Forrest described their relationship saying, "Jenny and me was like peas and carrots." Jenny was one of the few people besides his mother to accept Forrest as he was, helping him learn to read and stand up to bullies who harassed him. However, Jenny's home life was not nearly as happy as Forrest's: her mother had died when she was five and her father was an alcoholic who molested and beat his children (until Jenny was taken away to live with her grandmother), and Forrest's friendship offered her an escape.
One day, a group of bullies were throwing rocks at Forrest, and one of them cut his forehead. Jenny told Forrest, "Run Forrest run!", which he did, only to prompt the bullies to chase him on their bikes. As Forrest struggled to run, his leg braces broke apart. Once he was free of them, Forrest was able to run incredibly fast. Forrest would never wear leg braces again, and was able to run anywhere he wanted to after