Four Rooms is a 1995 American anthology 
farce black comedy film co-written and co-directed by Allison Anders, Alexandre Rockwell, Robert Rodriguez, and Quentin Tarantino. The story is set in the fictional Hotel Mon Signor in Los Angeles on New Year's Eve. Tim Roth plays Ted, the bellhop and main character in the frame story, whose first night on the job consists of four very different encounters with various hotel guests. 
Four Rooms was released in the United States on December 25, 1995, by Miramax Films. The film received mixed reviews from critics who praised the segments directed by Rodriguez and Tarantino, but heavily criticized the segments by Anders and Rockwell. For her role, Madonna won for Worst Supporting Actress at the 16th Golden Raspberry Awards.


== Plot ==
On New Year's Eve, bellhop Sam (Marc Lawrence) of the Hotel Mon Signor briefs his replacement, Ted (Tim Roth).
The film's animated opening credits, inspired by the cartoons of The Pink Panther Show, feature the scat song "Vertigogo" by Combustible Edison.


=== Honeymoon Suite – "The Missing Ingredient" ===
Written and directed by Allison Anders
Ted assists a group of unusual women with their luggage, which he brings to the Honeymoon Suite. He learns they are a coven of witches, attempting to reverse a spell cast on their goddess, Diana (Amanda De Cadenet). The ritual requires them each to place an ingredient into a large cauldron; however, one (Ione Skye) has still to retrieve her ingredient – semen – with one hour left. She seduces Ted and they have sex in the cauldron. He leaves and they complete the ritual, and Diana emerges from the cauldron.
After Ted's service in the honeymoon suite, a party guest from another room (Lawrence Bender) calls the front desk for some ice. He is unsure which floor he is on, but eventually directs Ted to Room 404.


=== Room 404 – "The Wrong Man" ===
Written and directed by Alexandre Rockwell
At Room 404, Ted finds himself in a fantasy hostage situation. Siegfried (David Proval) maniacally accuses Ted, whom he calls Theodore, of having slept with his wife Angela (Jennifer Beals). Ted is forced at gunpoint to participate in the scenario, uncertain of what is real. He tries to escape through the bathroom window but gets stuck, and a party guest vomits onto him from the window above. As Ted frees himself and climbs out, another guest (Paul Skemp) arrives at Room 404 and is greeted by Siegfried in the same manner.


=== Room 309 – "The Misbehavers" ===
Written and directed by Robert Rodriguez
A husband (Antonio Banderas) and wife (Tamlyn Tomita) leave for a New Year's Eve party, tipping Ted $500 to keep an eye on their children, Sarah and Juancho (Lana McKissack and Danny Verduzco). Ted instructs the children to stay in their room; when he leaves, they vandalize the room, exploding a bottle of champagne. They call Ted for toothbrushes, and he tries unsuccessfully to put them to bed. He leaves but is summoned back to find the room in further chaos: a painting has been turned into a dartboard with lipstick and a syringe, Juancho has a cigarette, Sarah has a bottle of liquor, the television is set to an adult channel, and the children have found a dead prostitute (Patricia Vonne) in the box spring. Sarah stabs Ted in the leg with the syringe when he repeatedly uses the word "whore" and Juancho accidentally sets the room on fire. Their father returns, carrying his passed-out wife, and asks Ted, "Did they misbehave?" The sprinkler system activates while everyone stands still.
Unsettled, Ted calls his boss Betty (Kathy Griffin) to quit. After a conversation with Margaret (Marisa Tomei), he gets Betty on the phone and tries to quit, but receives a call from the hotel penthouse. Betty persuades him to stay and tend to the guests.


=== Penthouse – "The Man from Hollywood" ===
Written and directed by Quentin Tarantino
The penthouse is occupied by famous director Chester Rush (Tarantino) and his friends. They request a block of wood, thr