Foxfire magazine began in 1966, written and published as a quarterly American magazine by students at Rabun Gap-Nacoochee School, a private secondary education school located in the U.S. state of Georgia.  At the time Foxfire began, Rabun Gap Nacoochee School was also operating as a public secondary education school for students who were residents of northern Rabun County, Georgia.  An example of experiential education, the magazine had articles based on the students' interviews with local people about aspects and practices in Appalachian culture. They captured oral history, craft traditions, and other material about the culture. When the articles were collected and published in book form in 1972, it became a bestseller nationally and gained attention for the Foxfire project.
The magazine was named for foxfire, a term for a naturally occurring bioluminescence in fungi in the forests of North Georgia. In 1977, the Foxfire project moved from the Rabun Gap-Nacoochee School to the newly built and consolidated public Rabun County High School. Additional books were published, and with profits from magazine and book sales, the students created a not-for-profit educational and literary organization and a museum. 
Today, the organization is overseen by a governing board of directors, with day-to-day operations managed by an executive director and paid staff. The magazine program is now a summer internship for high school-aged students living in Rabun County. The program supports up to 12 students for six weeks each summer. These students are responsible for the publishing the Foxfire Magazine. 


== History ==
In 1966, Eliot Wigginton and his students in an English class at the Rabun Gap-Nacoochee School initiated a project to engage students in writing. The class decided to publish a magazine over the course of the semester. Its articles were the product of the students' interviewing their relatives and local citizens about how lifestyles had changed over the course of their lives and dealt with traditions in the rural area. First published in 1966, the magazine covers topics of the lifestyle, culture, crafts, and skills of people in southern Appalachia. The content is written as a mixture of how-to information, first-person narratives, oral history, and folklore.
The Foxfire project has published Foxfire magazine continuously since 1966.  In 1972, the first of the highly popular Foxfire books was published, which collected published articles as well as new material. Both the magazine and books are based on the stories and life of elders and students, featuring advice and personal stories about subjects as wide-ranging as hog dressing, faith healing, blacksmithing, and Appalachian local and regional history. Foxfire moved from Rabun Gap-Nacoochee School to Rabun County High School in 1977.
One of the most famous contacts in the Foxfire books was a woman named Arie Carpenter, also known as "Aunt Arie."
In 1992 Wigginton pled guilty to child molestation, after more than twenty former students came forward prepared to testify that Wigginton had molested them as children. After his confession, the Foxfire Fund announced Wigginton's "total separation" from the organization.
Since that time, the Foxfire Fund board of directors has governed operations of Foxfire's physical and intellectual properties. Day-to-day operations of the organizations programs and projects is managed by an executive director, who reports to the board, and additional full-time staff. 


== Books ==
The Foxfire books are a series of copyrighted anthologies of articles originally written for Foxfire magazine, along with additional content not suitable for the magazine format. Though first conceived primarily as a sociological work, recounting oral traditions, the books, particularly the early ones, were a commercial success as instructional works.
Members of the 1970s back-to-the-land movement used the books as a basis to return to lives of simplicity. The first book w