À nous la liberté, sometimes written as À nous la liberté!, (English: Freedom Forever or Freedom for Us) is a 1931 French musical film directed by René Clair. With a score by Georges Auric, it has more music than any of Clair's other early works. Praised for its use of sound and Academy Award-nominated scenic design, the film has been called Clair's "crowning achievement".


== Plot summary ==

Inmates at a French prison make toy wooden horses at a long table. Émile, one of the prisoners, distracts a guard so his friend, Louis, can steal a hook-shaped tool. That night, the pair escape from their cell. Louis scales the inner wall of the facility using a rope tied to the hook, but Émile is spotted when he tries to follow. Émile throws the rope to Louis and tells him to run for it. Several guards chase Émile, while Louis climbs the outer wall. Panicked, Louis runs into a road and is hit by a bicyclist. He rides off on the man's bicycle and ends up winning a race. Later, he covers up his theft of a small shop by acting as though he was attacked by a thief while the proprietor was out of the room.
Starting as a poor record merchant, Louis is able to work his way up until he is the well-attired and well-mannered head of a business that makes phonographs. The factory is run with great efficiency and the workers, overseen by a strict foreman, toil on an assembly line in an environment reminiscent of the prison from which Louis escaped.
In a field behind the factory, Émile (apparently having been released from prison) wakes from a nap in the grass. The Sun is shining and some flowers sing him a song, but then two policemen come by and arrest him for vagrancy. From his jail cell, he hears music and sees, in an apartment across the street, a woman who appears to be singing while she hangs flowers around a window. Not wanting to be incarcerated any more, Émile tries to hang himself from the prison window, but the bars comes loose, so he escapes instead.
Finding himself below the flower-covered window, Émile pauses to listen to the song, which winds down and stops, revealing to him that it was being played on a phonograph. He turns and sees the woman, Jeanne, standing next to him on the street and goes to say hello, but her uncle kicks Émile and pulls her away. A shopkeeper laughs at Émile and the two argue, which distracts Jeanne's uncle just long enough for Jeanne to make a date with her boyfriend, Paul, before her uncle leads her off to work. Émile finds safety from the shopkeeper in a line that turns out to be for new recruits at Louis' factory. He is about to leave when he discovers Jeanne works there as a secretary, so he sticks around.
On the assembly line, Émile soon falls behind and causes a disruption. Jeanne comes to the factory floor to escape the unwanted advances of the foreman and Émile goes to talk to her. She drops her handkerchief and leaves before he can give it back to her, as the foreman has entered to try to restore order. The assembly line is restarted and Émile is removed from his position. Jeanne's handkerchief gets thrown out a window, so Émile goes after it and winds up being chased by the foreman and a growing number of factory guards, but the chase stops abruptly when everyone stands at attention while Louis passes by. Louis acts as though he does not recognize Émile, though he still agrees to speak privately.
In Louis' office, Louis pulls a gun on Émile and then offers him money to disappear without revealing how they know each other. Émile refuses to extort his friend and sees Jeanne out the window. He wants to go return her handkerchief, but Louis stops him, cutting Émile's wrist in the process. As Louis tends to the wound with his handkerchief, he recalls that he had done similarly during their jailbreak and their friendship is rekindled.
Émile's reappearance helps to get Louis to relax. After a fancy dinner party is broken up, not so much by the waiter spilling dessert on the guests as by Émile and Louis l