Free Willy is a 1993 American family drama film, directed by Simon Wincer, produced by Lauren Shuler Donner and Jennie Lew Tugend, written by Keith A. Walker and Corey Blechman from a story by Walker and distributed by Warner Bros. Pictures under their Family Entertainment imprint. The film stars Jason James Richter in his film debut, Lori Petty, Jayne Atkinson, August Schellenberg, and Michael Madsen with the eponymous character, Willy, played by Keiko.
The story is about a 12 year old orphaned boy named Jesse who befriends a captive orca, Willy, at an ailing amusement park. When he discovers that the park owner has been planning to dispose of Willy, he hatches a scheme to break Willy out of captivity.
Released on July 16, 1993, the film received positive attention from critics and was a commercial success, grossing $153.7 million from a $20 million budget. It grew into a small franchise, including an animated television series, two sequels, and a direct-to-video reboot in addition to inspiring the rehabilitation and release of Keiko. The film marked Keith A. Walker's only film as screenwriter, and last project before his death in late December 1996.


== Plot ==
On the Pacific Northwest coastline, a pod of orcas are peacefully swimming. The pod is tracked down by a group of whalers. One of the orcas is separated from his family. The whalers sell him to Northwest Adventure Park.
Months later in Portland, Jesse, a 12-year-old orphan who was abandoned by his mother six years ago, fled from Cooperton and spends three days roaming the streets with his fellow orphans, begging for money and stealing food. To evade police in pursuit later that night, he and Perry break into a building that turns out to be the adventure park's observation area. While doing graffiti on the building walls and its water tank, Jesse comes face to face with the large orca before ultimately getting caught by the police. Dwight informs him that his new foster parents Glen and Annie Greenwood would be happy to take him in. Jesse, who hopes to be reunited with his mother, begrudgingly goes to live with them.
In lieu of being sent to juvenile hall, Jesse is allowed to make up for his vandalism by cleaning and repainting the observation area. He forms a bond with the orca, named Willy, when he takes a liking to Jesse’s harmonica playing. With probation ending, and his job completed, Jesse sneaks out of the house to visit Willy, and accidentally falls in the tank. He nearly drowns but Willy saves the boy and brings him to the surface. Randolph and Rae notice that Jesse is the only human the normally ill-tempered Willy responds to, and eventually Jesse is offered a summer job. He also starts to warm up to the Greenwoods.
Park owner Dial sees the talent Jesse and Willy have together in hopes of finally making money from Willy who has thus far been a costly venture for him. On opening day, however, Willy refuses to perform due to being antagonized. Jesse, unable to get him to do tricks while dealing with pressure from spectators, tearfully storms off and plans to find his mother. Willy cracks the tank with his stress-induced rage, having had enough of the children's constant banging. That night, a disillusioned Jesse sneaks out to stop by the tank to say goodbye to Willy. Before leaving, something responds to Willy's crying noises again. Jesse follows the responses and realizes Willy is communicating with his family. The discovery is interrupted when park manager Wade and some colleagues sneak into the observation area to deliberately damage the spot where Willy smashed the tank that the water will gradually leak out.
Randolph explains to Jesse that Dial plans to kill Willy and collect the million-dollar insurance. Jesse hatches a plan to return him to the ocean, with Randolph and Rae joining in. They use a forklift to transport Willy onto a truck stolen from Glen. As the insurance policy doesn't cover theft, Dial launches a search when he is informed by Wade about