Free Willy 2: The Adventure Home (also known as Free Willy 2) is a 1995 American family adventure drama film directed by Dwight Little from a screenplay by Karen Janszen, Corey Blechman and John Mattson. It is the sequel to the 1993 film Free Willy and second installment in the Free Willy film series distributed by Warner Bros. under their Warner Bros. Family Entertainment label. Jason James Richter, Jayne Atkinson, August Schellenberg, Michael Madsen and Mykelti Williamson reprise their roles from the first film. New cast members include Jon Tenney and Elizabeth Peña. Unlike the previous film where Keiko played Willy, a robotic double created by Edge Innovations was used to play the eponymous whale while the Free Willy Keiko Foundation devised a plan to bring Keiko to the Oregon Coast Aquarium where he would be rehabilitated from poor health. However, Keiko did make an uncredited appearance, reprising his role as Willy through an archival clip shown in the movie. 
Set two years after Jesse freed his orca friend Willy whose now reunited with his family which includes sister Luna, brother Littlespot and mother Catspaw, the plot follows Jesse in a race against time after an oil spill separated Willy and his siblings from their mother and it's up to him to get them back home before the oil traps them in the cove for good.
Filming commenced in Astoria, Oregon and the San Juan Islands between April and August 1994 with additional filming taking place in California. The film opened on July 19, 1995 to mixed reviews from critics. Despite underperforming at the box office, a third film Free Willy 3: The Rescue was subsequently released in 1997.


== Plot ==
The Greenwoods are planning a trip to the San Juan Islands to visit Randolph, who now works for the Orcas Institute, while camping at Camp Nor'Wester. Before they leave, Dwight arrives with news that Jesse's mother was found dead in New York City and left behind another son. This devastates Jesse after many attempts at finding her, but comes to terms after talking his feelings out with Glen. Jesse is united with his half-brother Elvis, who is morose, overly talkative and mischievous. He is also prone to telling lies and easily gets on Jesse's nerves. To make matters even worse for Jesse, Elvis is invited along on their trip, so that they can get to know each other. At the environmental institute, Jesse reunites with Randolph, quickly becomes smitten with his goddaughter, Nadine, and is introduced to Willy's family during a day of whale watching. He tracks and later reunites with Willy that night. Willy was very happy to see Jesse again.
As the Greenwoods continue to enjoy their camping trip, Liberian oil tanker the Dakar runs aground on Lawson Reef and spills oil due to an engine malfunction, trapping Willy and his siblings Luna and Littlespot at the campsite. Luna gets oil in her lungs having swum through it and beaches herself. Jesse and the adults are able to get her back in the water, but realize they need further assistance to help her. Benbrook Oil CEO John Milner arrives and announces a plan to move the whales into captivity until further notice. Jesse challenges this, making him promise to do whatever he can to get them safely back to their mother Catspaw, lest he be blamed for Luna's death, to which John seemingly agrees. Luna's condition worsens the day after Kate Haley treats her. Jesse and Randolph use an old Indian remedy that helped Luna recover.
At a donut shop, Elvis who ran away yesterday after Annie accidentally breaks a promise in allowing him to get involved more, overhears John and Wilcox's real plan to sell the whales. With the oil spill reaching dangerous proximity to the cove, Benbrook Oil and the whalers boom it off despite Jesse, Randolph and Nadine's objections and begin extracting the whales. Elvis rushes back to camp to warn Jesse and Nadine. They confront John and he and his assistant are knocked into the water for breaking his promise. Willy manages t