French Kiss is a 1995 romantic comedy film directed by Lawrence Kasdan and starring Meg Ryan and Kevin Kline. Written by Adam Brooks, the film is about a woman who flies to France to confront her straying fiancé and gets into trouble when the charming crook seated next to her uses her to smuggle a stolen diamond necklace. French Kiss was filmed on location in Paris, the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur région of southeastern France, and Cannes. The film was released in the United States on May 5, 1995, and received mixed reviews. The film was a success and went on to earn a total worldwide gross of $101,982,854.
A Hindi remake of the film named Pyaar To Hona Hi Tha was released on July 24, 1998. The 2004 Malayalam comedy film Vettam was also based on French Kiss.
It was the last movie to be shot by cinematographer Owen Roizman before his death in 2023.


== Plot ==
American history teacher Kate lives in Canada with her fiancé Charlie, a doctor. When Charlie urges her to accompany him to Paris for an upcoming conference, she declines, partly due to her fear of flying, her intolerance for cheese and the stereotypical idea she has about the French.
Days later, Charlie calls Kate, saying he has fallen in love with French woman Juliette and will not be returning. Determined to win him back, Kate boards a flight to Paris and is seated next to Frenchman Luc Teyssier, whom she instantly dislikes.
Unknown to Kate, Luc is smuggling a vine cutting and a stolen diamond necklace into France, hoping to use both to start his own vineyard. To tolerate Luc long enough to arrive in Paris, Kate gets drunk. Before deboarding, Luc sneaks the vine and necklace into Kate's bag, knowing she will not be searched at customs.
At the terminal, Luc is spotted by Inspector Jean-Paul Cardon, who searches his bag. Jean-Paul knows of Luc's vocation, but feels "protective" of him as Luc once saved his life. Meanwhile, Kate arrives at Charlie's hotel.
While waiting in the lobby with thief Bob, Kate sees Charlie and Juliette kissing and faints. Bob steals her bag and leaves as Luc arrives. After reviving Kate, Luc realizes who has the necklace, goes with Kate to Bob's apartment, and recovers the bag, absent her money and passport.
Upset, Kate heads off on her own, and learns that Charlie is traveling to Cannes to meet Juliette's parents. Luc, meanwhile, realizes the necklace must still be in Kate's bag. He tracks her down to the train station, offers to help her "win back Charlie", and together they board a train to Cannes. That evening, Luc sees Charlie's picture from Kate's locket. After Kate falls asleep, he tries to check the bag during which she, thinking it is Charlie, kisses him.
The next morning during breakfast, she describes it as a 'delicious dream' with which she woke up 'transformed,' only to sample some of the 452 official government cheeses of France, despite being lactose intolerant. She eventually gets an upset stomach and is ill. They get off the train at Luc's hometown of La Ravelle in Paulhaguet and stay at his family home and vineyard. Kate learns about Luc's past and how he gambled away his vineyard birthright to his brother in a hand of poker; she also learns that while he may be a schemer, he knows about wine, and dreams of someday buying land for his own winery. As they board the train to Cannes, Kate shows him that she, in fact, has the necklace.
At Cannes, they check into a hotel room using a stolen credit card. Following Luc's advice, Kate confronts Charlie in front of Juliette on the beach, pretending to be indifferent to him. To make him jealous, Luc pretends to be Kate's lover, and it works. Later that afternoon, Jean-Paul approaches Kate, urging her to convince Luc to return the necklace anonymously to avoid jail. Luc was planning to sell the necklace at Cartier, but agrees to Kate's "new plan" to have her sell the necklace, as that would be safer.
At dinner, Charlie apologizes to Kate and accompanies her to her room, where he tries to 