Friday the 13th Part VI: Jason Lives (stylized onscreen as Jason Lives: Friday the 13th Part VI) is a 1986 American  slasher film written and directed by Tom McLoughlin, and starring Thom Mathews, Jennifer Cooke, David Kagen, and C.J. Graham. It is a sequel to Friday the 13th: A New Beginning (1985) and the sixth installment in the Friday the 13th franchise, being the last one to feature Tommy Jarvis (Mathews) as the protagonist. Continuing from the events of the previous film, the plot follows Tommy after he accidentally resurrects mass murderer Jason Voorhees (Graham) while attempting to destroy his body to ensure he will not return. While Jason returns to Crystal Lake for another killing spree, Tommy must overcome his fear of the masked killer that has haunted him for years and find a way to stop him once and for all.
The original storyline had Tommy Jarvis become the series' new antagonist, but after the poor fan reception of A New Beginning, the producers instead brought Jason Voorhees back and no mention is made of the events from the previous film. In resurrecting Jason, McLoughlin made him an explicitly supernatural force for the first time in the series. This version of Jason, an undead and more powerful superhuman, would become the standard depiction for the rest of the series. The film also introduced metahumor, gothic horror, and action film elements, including shootouts and car chases, into the series.
Jason Lives was the first in the series to receive some positive reception from critics since the original. In the years since its release, its self-referential humor and numerous instances of breaking the fourth wall have been praised for prefiguring Kevin Williamson's Scream film series. Jason Lives is considered a fan favorite of the series, in addition to receiving positive notice from horror film historians. It grossed $19.5 million at the U.S. box office on a budget of $3 million. The film was followed by Friday the 13th Part VII: The New Blood in 1988.


== Plot ==
Following the events of the last film, Tommy Jarvis is released from the local Hospital for the Criminally Insane. He still suffers from flashbacks of the mass murderer Jason Voorhees, whom he killed in part 4. Tommy returns to Crystal Lake - which has been renamed Forest Green - in order to confront his fears, along with his friend Allen Hawes. The pair visit Jason's grave during a thunderstorm, intending to cremate the killer's body and finally end Tommy's nightmares. After digging up Jason's corpse, Tommy experiences another flashback of his last encounter with Jason. As he furiously impales Jason's body with a metal fence post, two lightning bolts strike the post; this restores Jason as a revenant with superhuman strength. After killing Hawes, Jason dons his hockey mask (which Tommy has brought along with him). Tommy flees to the sheriff's office, where he attempts to warn the police of Jason's return. Instead, Tommy is arrested and jailed by the selfish, egotistical and mean-spirited Sheriff Mike Garris, who is aware of Tommy's institutionalization. Sheriff Garris presumes that Tommy is hallucinating Jason's return. On the road, camp counselors Darren Robinson and Lizabeth Mott get lost looking for Camp Forest Green. They discover Jason, who murders them both.
The following morning, Garris' daughter Megan – a gorgeous blonde with a wild streak – arrives at his station, along with her acquaintances Sissy Baker, Cort Andrews, and Lizabeth's sister Paula Mott. The four teenagers report Darren and Lizabeth missing. Tommy warns them about Jason, who is now considered an urban legend. Megan isn't sure whether to believe Tommy, despite her prompt attraction to him. In the woods, Jason happens upon a corporate paintball game; he decapitates three players, crushes a fourth player's face into a tree, and dismembers the fifth player. He also commandeers a machete from the players.
As children arrive at Camp Forest Green, the teen counselors do their best