Fun and Fancy Free is a 1947 American animated musical fantasy anthology film produced by Walt Disney and Ben Sharpsteen and released on September 27, 1947 by RKO Radio Pictures. The film is a compilation of two stories: Bongo, narrated by Dinah Shore and loosely based on the short story "Little Bear Bongo" by Sinclair Lewis; and Mickey and the Beanstalk, narrated by Edgar Bergen and based on the "Jack and the Beanstalk" fairy tale. Though the film is primarily animated, it also uses live-action segments starring Edgar Bergen to join its two stories.


== Plot ==
Jiminy Cricket first appears inside a large plant in a large house, exploring and singing "I'm a Happy-go-Lucky Fellow", until he happens to stumble upon a doll, a teddy bear, and a record player with some records, one of which is Bongo, a musical romance story narrated by actress Dinah Shore. Jiminy decides to set up the record player to play the story of Bongo.
The story follows the adventures of a circus bear named Bongo who longs for freedom in the wild. Bongo is raised in captivity and is praised for his performances, but is poorly treated once he is off stage. As such, while traveling on a circus train, his natural instincts (the call of the wild) urge him to break free. As soon as he escapes and enters a forest, a day passes before his idealistic assessment of his new living situation has been emotionally shattered, and he experiences some hard conditions.
The next morning, however, he meets a female bear named Lulubelle. The two bears immediately fall in love, until Bongo soon faces a romantic rival in the bush.  An enormously-shaped rogue bear named Lumpjaw.  Bongo fails to interpret Lulubelle slapping him as a sign of affection, and when she accidentally slaps Lumpjaw, he claims her for himself, forcing all other bears into a celebration for the happy new couple. Bongo comes to understand the meaning of slapping one another among wild bears and returns to challenge Lumpjaw. He manages to outwit Lumpjaw for much of their fight until the two fall into a treacherous river and go over the waterfall. While Lumpjaw is presumably swept away and never to be seen again, Bongo's hat saves him from falling down, and he finally claims Lulubelle as his mate. 
After the story is over, Jimminy starts to walk out. But then he notices a birthday invitation to Luana Patten. A party is taking place in the house across the way with Charlie McCarthy, Mortimer Snerd and Edgar Bergen. Excited, he exits the house out a window and hops over to the house across the way. He quiettly and obliviously attends the party while Luana, Charlie, Mortimer and Edgar party together. Edgar decides to tell a story to entertain them.
In a parody of "Jack and the Beanstalk", a jovial countryside land called Happy Valley, kept alive at all times by a singing golden Harp, is suddenly plagued by a severe drought and falls into turmoil and depression after the instrument is stolen from the castle by a mysterious figure. After weeks pass, there are only peasants remaining, the story then looks into three of them: Mickey, Donald, and Goofy. The trio have but just one loaf of bread and a single solitary bean to eat to share, but Donald, driven insane by his hunger, attempts to make a sandwich out of plates and silverware, before trying to kill the trio's pet cow with an axe. Mickey decides to sell the cow for money to buy food.
Goofy and Donald are excited about eating more food again until Mickey comes back and reveals that he sold the cow in exchange for a container of beans that are said to be magical. Thinking that Mickey had been conned, an angry Donald throws the beans down a hole in the floor. However, it turns out that the beans are truly magical as later that night, a gigantic beanstalk grows, taking the house with it. 
The next morning, Mickey, Donald, and Goofy soon find themselves at the top of the beanstalk and in a magical kingdom of enormous scope, where they appear to be tiny compared to th