Gang Related is an American action drama television series that aired on Fox from May 22 to August 14, 2014. The network placed the original series order on May 8, 2013, for 13 episodes. On September 2, 2014, Fox cancelled the series.


== Plot ==
The series follows the personal and professional lives of the members of the elite Los Angeles Police Department's multi-agency Gang Task Force as they take on the city's most dangerous gangs, including one with which a task force member has ties.
Opening narration: (by Ramon Rodriguez)

My name is Ryan Lopez. After my parents died, the Acostas and Los Angelicos took me in and raised me as one of their own. To protect them, I was asked to go undercover as a member of the LAPD. Now I must walk the line between cop and criminal without being exposed.


== Cast ==


=== Main cast ===
Ramon Rodriguez as Ryan Lopez: an LAPD detective and former U.S. Army Ranger who was taken in and raised by the Acosta family at a young age after the death of his father at age ten. He was born in a poor town in Mexico, and moved to the United States illegally with his new family at that time.
Jay Hernandez as Daniel Acosta: son of the Acosta family who is working as an investment banker and is Ryan's childhood best friend.
RZA as Cassius Green: DEA Agent and Ryan's second partner.
Sung Kang as Tae Kim: FBI Agent and Veronica's partner. He has a sister, who suffered a brain injury and lives in a long-term care facility.
Inbar Lavi as Veronika "Vee" Dotsen: ICE Agent and Tae's partner. She was stuck by a needle and is uncertain if she will be HIV positive. Her brother, Anton, is in prison for life. They are Russian.
Rey Gallegos as Carlos Acosta: older son of Acosta family who is a lieutenant of the "Los Angelicos" gang.
Shantel VanSanten as Jessica "Jess" Mary Chapel: Assistant District Attorney of Los Angeles County who is also Sam Chapel's daughter and Ryan's girlfriend.
Cliff Curtis as Javier Acosta: Head of the Los Angelicos and patriarch of the Acosta family. His parents were illegally working at a restaurant when it burned down and the illegal workers all died. Javier and other people still in the basement escaped, but not his parents.
Terry O'Quinn as Sam Chapel: Head of the LAPD Gang Task Force and father of Jessica Chapel. Chapel goes rogue at times to achieve justice.


=== Recurring cast ===
Emilio Rivera as Tio Gordo: right-hand man of the Los Angelicos
Jay Karnes as Paul Carter: an LAPD Internal Affairs detective investigating the circumstances surrounding the death of Ryan's partner
Konstantin Lavysh as Anton Dotsen: brother of Vee Dotsen
Philip Anthony-Rodriguez as Billy Cabrera: undercover agent working at Daniel's bank
Lela Loren as Silvia: Daniel's fiancée, she is implied to have lingering feelings for Ryan. She was Ryan's girlfriend before he joined the Army. They went their separate ways. Her name is tattooed on his arm. When he came back, she was with Daniel.
Amaury Nolasco as Matias: killer working for the Metas. He's famous for using his signature sledgehammer in executions.


== Episodes ==


== Critical reception ==
Reviews for the show were mixed. It holds a 41% approval rating with an average score of 5.69/10 on review aggregator site Rotten Tomatoes. The consensus states: "Gang Related focuses more on being dark and edgy than delivering an original narrative, resulting in a fairly ordinary cop drama." On Metacritic, it has a score of 52 out of 100, indicating "mixed or average reviews".
Dorothy Rabinowitz at The Wall Street Journal wrote: "the writing is sharp, the atmosphere thick with tension from, among other things, car and foot chases". In contrast, The Hollywood Reporter's Tim Goodman wrote: "it's pretty clear right away that you're dealing with a pile of clichés that, pushed together and financed, can never be more than dreadful".


== Development ==
In January 2013, Fox announced that it had received a pilot order for the project.
In February 2013, Ramon Rodriguez was th