Garfield Gets Real (also known as Garfield 3D in some regions) is a 2007 American direct-to-video animated comedy film based on the comic strip Garfield. It was produced by Paws, Inc. in cooperation with Davis Entertainment, and The Animation Picture Company and distributed by 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment. It was written by Garfield's creator Jim Davis, who started working on the script in the autumn of 1996. This was the first fully animated Garfield production since the 1991 television special Garfield Gets a Life, and the season finale of Garfield and Friends. The DVD was shipped to stores on August 9, 2007.  Gregg Berger, an actor from the original series, reprises his role of Odie, but Garfield was voiced by veteran voice actor Frank Welker, since the original actor Lorenzo Music died six years earlier in 2001 and Jon is voiced by Wally Wingert, as Thom Huge retired that same year. The film received unfavorable reviews.


== Plot ==
Garfield lives with canine Odie and owner Jon Arbuckle in a world inhabited by comic/cartoon characters. Garfield and the gang work at the Comic Studios with other comic strip characters, such as his girlfriend Arlene, frenemy Nermal, Billy Bear, Randy Rabbit, & inventor Wally Stegman & his wife, Bonita, where the comics are made in their world and sent to "The Real World" where it's made in books & newspapers. Garfield is tired of the old jokes his friends crack and is bored with life in Toon World and longs to go to The Real World. The Comic Strip requires a bone for Odie, but he does not want to give back the bone and looks for a place to hide it. But he accidentally makes the bone go through the screen in the studio and it is sucked into the Real World.
Eli, the head technician, explains to the toons that the screen separates Toon World and the Real World with no way back. Garfield sees his chance for a change in life and goes through the screen without anyone noticing. As soon as he enters the Real World, the toons discover this on their projector and Eli blocks the patch in the screen border by taping special tape on it, so no one can gain access to the real world. However, Odie jumps onto the screen trying to get his bone which is on the screen but actually is in the real world and gets sucked there as well before the patch is sealed, making Garfield and Odie permanently stuck in the Real World. Garfield tries to get Odie back to Toon World, but due to him not listening to Eli's warnings, fails to do so. Odie gets his bone back and he and Garfield go find some food. While trying to get used to their new surroundings, Garfield meets an alley cat named Shecky who yearns to be a star while Odie is chased by a gang of Chihuahuas who want his bone, but is saved by Garfield who grabs the bone and runs through a hole in a tree which is small for the Chihuahua's fat owner to get through.
The duo learns from Shecky that strays get food by annoying the people who live in a building and the people start throwing food at Shecky. After dinner, he brings the duo to their new home, an abandoned inn populated by colonies of stray pets called Hotel Muncie, where he invites them to join the family. The next day, the duo finds out that due to their absence, their comic is getting canceled. Garfield finds an article asking people to try out and replace him. The duo head for the place where they are doing try-outs and try to impress the judges, but fail due to the judges not realizing they're the real ones and they decide to hire Hale and Hardy, an equally muscular cat & dog, to replace them. However, after second thoughts, the judges come to their senses and give Garfield & Odie one more chance: if they do not make it back home in 24 hours, Hale and Hardy will replace them. Garfield gives Wally an idea of building a big tunnel that can go through the screen after remembering seeing one of Wally's latest inventions earlier and shares the idea with his friends back in Toon World.
Later that night, Hal