Ghost in the Shell: The New Movie (Japanese: 攻殻機動隊 新劇場版, Hepburn: Kōkaku Kidōtai: Shin Gekijōban, lit. Mobile Armored Riot Police: The New Theatrical Edition), also known in Japan as Ghost in the Shell: The Movie or New Ghost in the Shell, is a 2015 Japanese animated science fiction film directed by Kazuya Nomura. A continuation of the Ghost in the Shell: Arise story arc, The New Movie is the first feature in the series since Ghost in the Shell SAC: Solid State Society in 2006. The film is a continuation of Pyrophoric Cult (the final episode of Arise), and ties up loose ends from that arc.


== Premise ==

Set after the events of Arise, the film involves the assassination of the Prime Minister of Japan which is publicly described as the "greatest event since the war". It is up to Public Security Section 9, led by Major Motoko Kusanagi, to discover the true nature of the murder. They are aided by the Prime Minister's son, Osamu Fujimoto.


== Voice cast ==


== Production ==
A new theatrical title in the Ghost in the Shell series was announced on September 5, 2014, on the official Japanese Ghost in the Shell: Arise website. The site confirmed the film would see a 2015 release, and labelled the upcoming film as the "further evolution [of the series]". On January 8, 2015, a short teaser trailer was revealed for the project unveiling a redesigned Major more closely resembling her appearance from the older films. The trailer listed Kazuya Nomura as the director, Kazuchika Kise as the character designer, Toru Okubo as the animation director, Tow Ubukata as the screenplay writer and Cornelius as the composer. The film was announced with a tentative release of "early summer of 2015" in Japanese theaters.
On March 20, the official website for The New Movie was updated with a teaser trailer showing thirty seconds of footage. The character designs of Section 9 were revealed to be more closely resembling the Arise series, rather than other incarnations of the characters. The trailer announced the film's Japanese premiere date of June 20, 2015. The film's main theme, "Mada Ugoku" by Maaya Sakamoto and Cornelius, was announced on March 25 alongside another track made for the movie titled "Anata o Tamotsu Mono". Both were released in a collectible compact disc on June 17, 2015. Sandaime J Soul Brothers' member, NAOTO, made his debut as a voice actor in The New Movie, starring in the role of a new character named Osamu Fujimoto. Fujimoto is described as the son of the fictional Japanese Prime Minister featured in the film.
A full trailer depicting scenes from the film was released on May 29, 2015, revealing many returning characters from Arise as well as mention of the Fire Starter hacker. A twelve-minute preview of footage from the film was released publicly on June 9 as promotion before its Japanese premiere. The film was released on June 20, 2015, in Japanese theaters. On July 25, it was announced by Funimation at the 2015 Otakon anime convention that the film would receive a localized theatrical run in Western territories under the title of Ghost in the Shell: The Movie, later changed to Ghost in the Shell: The New Movie.


== Promotion ==


=== Virtual Reality Diver ===

On September 14, 2015, Production I.G. announced a 10-minute virtual reality short film titled Kōkaku Kidōtai - Shin Gekijōban: Virtual Reality Diver based on The New Movie. The short film is described as an "original story" presented in "360° 3D video" and plays through the use of the Oculus Rift virtual reality headset, releasing worldwide on both the Apple App Store and Google Play in the fourth quarter of 2015. A three-minute demonstration trailer of Virtual Reality Diver was shown at the 2015 Tokyo Game Show. It was input through a single 2D channel, rather than the 3D input planned for the final product, in order to present it to a larger press through the six-meter hemispherical display. In subsequent press releases, many outlets released tilted photographs of the