The second season of the American satirical superhero television series The Boys, the first series in the franchise based on the comic book series of the same name written by Garth Ennis and Darick Robertson, was developed for television by American writer and television producer Eric Kripke. The season was produced by Sony Pictures Television in association with Point Grey Pictures, Original Film, Kripke Enterprises, Kickstart Entertainment and KFL Nightsky Productions.
The show's second season stars Karl Urban, Jack Quaid, Antony Starr, Erin Moriarty, Dominique McElligott, Jessie T. Usher, Laz Alonso, Chace Crawford, Tomer Kapon, Karen Fukuhara, Nathan Mitchell, Colby Minifie and Aya Cash. The story continues the conflict between the two groups with the eponymous Boys, now with the aid of Starlight continuing their efforts to defeat Vought despite being wanted by the government. The conflict is worsened when Butcher learns that Becca is still alive and she is being held captive by Vought with a superpowered son fathered by Homelander. Stormfront, a new superhero with a secret past, joins the Seven and subtly promotes her message throughout the world, with the hopes of convincing an unwitting Homelander to lead Supes to world domination.
The season premiered on the streaming service Amazon Prime Video on September 4, 2020, with its first three episodes. The remaining five episodes were released weekly until October 9, 2020, in contrast the release of the previous season which premiered in a single day. The season received record viewership for Amazon Prime and critical acclaim, with high praise towards the humor, themes, screenplay, storyline, and performances, especially Urban, Starr, and Cash, becoming the best reviewed superhero show of the year. It received multiple accolades, including a nomination for Outstanding Drama Series at the 73rd Primetime Emmy Awards. On July 23, 2020, the series was renewed for a third season and several spin-offs, forming a franchise.

