Justice League: Gods and Monsters is a 2015 American animated superhero film and the 24th film of the DC Universe Animated Original Movies. It features an alternate universe version of the DC Comics superhero team the Justice League. It was released as a download on July 21, 2015, and released on DVD and Blu-ray on July 28.


== Plot ==
In an alternate universe, the Justice League—Batman (Dr. Kirk Langstrom), Wonder Woman (Bekka), and Superman (Hernan Guerra, son of General Zod)— is an autonomous brutal force that maintains order on Earth; thus public opinion is mixed with awe and hatred. Scientists Victor Fries, Ray Palmer, and Silas Stone (whom Superman hired to work on a project for him), along with his young son Victor, are killed by methods similar to the Justice League. President Amanda Waller asks they cooperate with the government's investigation. Meanwhile, Superman invites Lois Lane to the Tower of the Justice, where he tells her of his goals to help humanity and reveals how little he knows about Krypton or his heritage.
Batman discovers an email sent to Dr. Stone and several scientists, including Dr. Will Magnus, Kirk's best friend who helped with his transformation. He asks Magnus, and his wife Tina, about "Project Fair Play", which involved scientists under Lex Luthor's employ; Magnus offers to ask what the others know. Magnus gathers the remaining scientists (John Henry Irons, Thomas Morrow, Michael Holt, Pat Dugan, Emil Hamilton, Karen Beecher, Thaddeus Sivana, Kimiyo Hoshi, and Stephen Shin) for answers. However, they are attacked by three robot assassins who travel via Boom tube. Despite their efforts, the assassins leave Magnus as the sole survivor of the attack.
The League takes Magnus to the Tower to recover, while Superman flies to Luthor's satellite orbiting the Moon. Luthor reveals the Project is a way to destroy the League if necessary; he also reveals the truth about Zod to Superman. As Superman leaves, a robot assassin who has Superman's powers booms in and destroys the satellite, seemingly killing Luthor. Steve Trevor shows satellite footage of the explosion and Superman's presence to Waller. She retaliates with Project Fair Play, which consists of troops and vehicles armed with energy weapons powered by red solar radiation like Krypton's star.
Superman and Wonder Woman face the army while Batman stays inside the Tower, where he activates the forcefield, thinking Magnus can clear the League. Tina appears and subdues Batman before shape-shifting into a liquid metal robot named Platinum, and revives Magnus with an organic nanite serum that enhances his strength and healing. A fully healed Magnus then reveals that he had killed Tina in a fit of rage after realizing she was in love with Kirk. Believing that there is no hope for humanity, Magnus orchestrated everything using his Metal Men with the intent to detonate a Nanite Bomb in order to forcefully link humanity together into a hive mind. He joined Fair Play for its resources to fund his secret Nanite Bomb project.
As Magnus prepares his weapon, Luthor, who escaped the explosion, teleports into the middle of the battle outside and tells everyone he has discovered Magnus' plan. Batman frees himself and seizes the opportunity to drop the forcefield. With Batman fighting Magnus, Wonder Woman faces Platinum, and Superman takes on the Metal Men, who quickly merge into a single, more powerful entity that initially has the upper hand on Superman due to repeatedly ambushing him with rapid teleportation. Wonder Woman uses her sword's boom tube to send Platinum into the sun. Simultaneously, Superman destroys the Mother Boxes inside the unified Metal Man before taking it underground and melting it inside molten rock. The League destroys the bomb, and, after being defeated by Batman, a remorseful Magnus commits suicide by disintegrating himself with nanites as he tells Kirk to forgive him for his actions.
A week later, the Justice League has been cleared of all w