Golden Child (Korean: 골든차일드; abbreviated as GNCD or GolCha) is a South Korean boy band formed by Woollim Entertainment in 2017. The group is composed of ten members: Daeyeol, Y, Jangjun, Tag, Seungmin, Jaehyun, Jibeom, Donghyun, Joochan and Bomin. Originally an eleven-piece ensemble, Jaeseok departed from the group due to health issues in early 2018.
The group debuted on August 28, 2017, with their EP Gol-Cha!.


== History ==


=== 2017: W Project, 2017 Woollim Pick and debut with Gol-cha! ===
In January 2017, Woollim Entertainment launched pre-debut project for trainees, W Project. Five members of Golden Child (Joochan, Jangjun, Tag, Daeyeol, Donghyun) and former member Jaeseok were introduced under the pre-debut project.
On May 15, Woollim Entertainment launched new boy group Golden Child, their first boy group in seven years since Infinite. On May 17, the eleven member names of the group's line-up were revealed. On May 22, Woollim Entertainment dropped "class photos" concept for Golden Child and confirmed that they would have their pre-debut reality show 2017 Woollim Pick. On August 9, it was announced that Golden Child would make a cameo appearance on 20th Century Boy and Girl.

Golden Child officially debuted on August 28 with their first EP Gol-cha!, with a total of six tracks including the title track "DamDaDi". Their debut showcase was held at the Blue Square iMarket Hall on the same day as the album's release. On September 1, Golden Child made their official debut stage on the music program Music Bank, performing title track "DamDaDi" and "I Love You So". On September 17, the EP has reached No. 1 on Japan’s largest music site Tower Records’ daily chart. On October 16, they released a soundtrack Love Letter on 20th Century Boy and Girl.


=== 2018: Reorganization as ten members, Miracle, Goldenness, and Wish ===
On January 6, 2018, it was announced that Jaeseok had left the group due to health issues. The remaining ten members continued as a group and released their second EP, Miracle, on January 29. The EP contains six tracks including the title track "It's U". Their comeback showcase was held at the Blue Square iMarket Hall on the same day as the album's release. They continue the promotions with the release of the music video for "Lady" from their second EP. On April 13, they officially finished their three month promotions.
On May 22, Golden Child held their first fanmeeting Golden Day to celebrate their first debut anniversary in Seoul, South Korea. They also held Japanese fanmeeting in Nagoya and Tokyo on May 24 and May 25 respectively. On June 24, Golden Child performed at KCON NY 2018. On 11 August, Golden Child performed as the line-up for KCON LA 2018. Continuously, they confirmed their line-up for the first ever KCON Thailand on 29 September 2018.
On May 4, Golden Child announced their official fanclub name 'Goldenness', followed by the release of their first single album Goldenness on July 4, which contains three tracks including the lead single "Let Me".
At the Fanclub Inauguration Ceremony named 'Golden Child Cheerful Geumdong Time' on 14 October, they surprised their fans by announcing their comeback. On October 24, Golden Child held a comeback showcase and released their 3rd EP WISH. This EP had 7 tracks including the title track "Genie" with more mature image.


=== 2019–2020: Re-boot, Without You, Road to Kingdom, Take a Leap, and Pump It Up ===
On May 2, 2019, Golden Child released their first digital single "Spring Again" as a gift for fans during their hiatus. Golden Child's first web sitcom Crazy Petty Housemate began airing starting October 16 on Lululala Story Lab media platforms. The eight-episode web sitcom aired every Wednesday and Saturday.
On November 18, Golden Child released their first studio album Re-boot. The album contains twelve tracks including the title track "Wannabe". Golden Child won their first-ever music program win on December 26, through M Countdown.
Golden Child successful