Good Morning, Vietnam is a 1987 American war comedy film written by Mitch Markowitz and directed by Barry Levinson. Set in Saigon in 1965, during the Vietnam War, the film stars Robin Williams as an Armed Forces Radio Service DJ who proves hugely popular with the troops, but infuriates his superiors with what they call his "irreverent tendency". The story is loosely based on the experiences of AFRS DJ, Adrian Cronauer.
Most of Williams's performances portraying Cronauer's radio broadcasts were improvisations. The film was released by Buena Vista Pictures (under its Touchstone Pictures banner) to critical and commercial success; for his work in the film, Williams won a Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Motion Picture Musical or Comedy, and was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Actor and a BAFTA Award for Best Actor in a Leading Role. In 2000, the film ranked number 100 on the American Film Institute's "100 Years...100 Laughs" list, containing 100 movies considered the funniest in American cinema.


== Plot ==
In 1965, Airman Second Class Adrian Cronauer arrives in Saigon to work as a DJ for Armed Forces Radio Service. Private Edward Garlick takes him to the radio station, where his attitude and demeanor contrast sharply with those of many staff members. Cronauer's show starts with his signature, "Good morning, Vietnam!", and consists of reading strictly censored news and irreverent humor segments, mixed with rock-and-roll music, which is frowned on by his superiors, Second Lieutenant Steven Hauk and Sergeant Major Phillip Dickerson. Hauk adheres to strict Army guidelines with humor and music programming, while Dickerson is generally abusive to all enlisted men. However, Brigadier General Taylor and the other DJs quickly grow to like Cronauer and his eccentric brand of comedy.
Cronauer follows Trinh, a Vietnamese girl, to an English class. After bribing the teacher to let him take over, Cronauer instructs the students in American slang and profanity. When the class is dismissed, he tries to talk to Trinh, but is stopped by her brother, Tuan. Realizing the futility of pursuing her, Cronauer befriends Tuan and takes him to Jimmy Wah's, a local G.I. bar. Two racist soldiers, angered at Tuan's presence, initiate a confrontation that escalates into a brawl. Dickerson reprimands Cronauer for the incident, although his broadcasts continue as normal, gaining popularity from many listeners, in spite of Dickerson's and Hauk's dislike.
One afternoon, while relaxing in Jimmy Wah's, Cronauer is pulled outside by Tuan, saying that Trinh wants to see him. Moments later, the building explodes, killing two soldiers and leaving Cronauer shaken. The cause of the explosion is determined to be a bomb. Dickerson declares the news censored, but Cronauer locks himself in the studio and reports it anyway, to Dickerson's outrage. Dickerson cuts off the broadcast, and Cronauer is suspended, to the delight of Hauk and Dickerson. Hauk takes over the show, but his poor attempts at humor and choices of polka music lead to a flood of letters and phone calls demanding that Cronauer be reinstated.
Demoralized, Cronauer spends his time drinking and pursuing Trinh, only to be repeatedly rebuffed by her. At the radio station, Taylor intervenes, ordering Hauk to reinstate Cronauer, but he refuses to go back to work. Garlick and Cronauer's vehicle is stopped in a congested street, amid a convoy of soldiers from the 1st Infantry Division heading for Nha Trang, where Garlick persuades him to do an impromptu "broadcast" before they go off to fight. The soldiers' appreciation reminds Cronauer why his job is important, and he returns to work.
Dickerson seizes an opportunity to be permanently rid of Cronauer by approving his request to interview soldiers in the field, and routing him through the Viet Cong-controlled highway to An Lộc. Cronauer and Garlick's Jeep hits a mine, and they are forced to hide from VC patrols. In Saigon, Tuan learns of the trip after Crona