The Goodbye Girl is a 1977 American romantic comedy-drama film directed by Herbert Ross, written by Neil Simon and starring Richard Dreyfuss, Marsha Mason, Quinn Cummings and Paul Benedict. The film, produced by Ray Stark, centers on an odd trio of characters: a struggling actor who has sublet a Manhattan apartment from a friend, the current occupant (his friend's ex-girlfriend, who has just been abandoned), and her precocious young daughter.
Richard Dreyfuss won the 1977 Academy Award for Best Actor for his performance as Elliot Garfield. At the time, he became the youngest man (at age 30) to win an Oscar for Best Actor. Both Mason and Cummings were nominated for Oscars.
The film became the first romantic comedy to earn $100 million in box-office grosses.


== Plot ==
Dancer and divorcee Paula McFadden and her ten-year-old daughter Lucy live in a Manhattan apartment with her married boyfriend, Tony DeForrest. Coming home from shopping, Paula finds Tony gone as he had deserted her to travel to Italy for a film role. Prior to his departure (and unbeknownst to Paula), Tony sublet the apartment to Elliot Garfield, a neurotic but sweet aspiring actor from Chicago, who shows up in the middle of the night expecting to move in. Paula, who is demanding, cynical, and neurotic, makes it clear that she does not like Elliot but reluctantly lets him move in. 
Paula is struggling to get back into shape so she can resume her career as a dancer. Meanwhile, Elliot has landed the title role in an off-off-Broadway production of Richard III, but the director, Mark, wants him to play Richard III of England as an exaggerated homosexual stereotype. Reluctantly, Elliot agrees to the non-traditional portrayal, despite knowing that it may mean the end of his acting career. Theater critics savage the show, paying special attention to trashing Elliot's performance. The play quickly closes, much to his relief.
Despite their frequent clashes and Paula's lack of gratitude for Elliot's help, the two fall in love and sleep together. Lucy grows cautious and sees the affair as a repeat of what happened with Tony. Elliot convinces Paula that he will not be a repeat; later he picks up Lucy from school and takes her on a carriage ride, during which she admits she likes him. In response, Elliot explains how much he cares for Lucy and Paula and that he would not do anything to hurt them.
Elliot lands a job at an improvisational theatre and is seen by a well-known film director. He is offered a film role, but the job is in Seattle and he will be gone for four weeks. Paula is scared that Elliot is leaving her, never to return, like all the other men in her life. Later, he calls Paula from the phone booth across the street and invites her to go with him while he is filming. Paula declines but is encouraged by the invitation. Before hanging up, Elliot asks Paula to restring his prized guitar, and she realizes that this proves he really does love her and will return.


== Cast ==
Richard Dreyfuss as Elliot Garfield
Marsha Mason as Paula McFadden
Quinn Cummings as Lucy McFadden
Paul Benedict as Mark Bodine
Barbara Rhoades as Donna Douglas
Theresa Merritt as Mrs. Crosby
Michael Shawn as Ronnie Burns
Patricia Pearcy as Rhonda Fontana
Nicol Williamson as Oliver Fry (uncredited)


== Production ==
The film began as a screenplay called Bogart Slept Here (essentially the story of what happened to Dustin Hoffman after he became a star) that was to star Robert De Niro and Mason for Warner Bros. It would have been the film De Niro made immediately after Taxi Driver. Mike Nichols was hired to direct.
Simon recalled the original idea for the film:

The basic idea of the story was that Marsha, an ex-dancer, was married to a very promising but struggling off-Broadway actor who gets discovered in a small play and is whisked out to Hollywood, where he reluctantly moves with his family. He feels very out of place there...and they have trouble adjusting, especially after his first film ma