A Goofy Movie is a 1995 American animated musical comedy-adventure film produced by Disney MovieToons and Walt Disney Television Animation. Directed by Kevin Lima, the film is based on The Disney Afternoon television series Goof Troop created by Robert Taylor and Michael Peraza Jr., and serves as a standalone follow-up to the show. It features the voices of Bill Farmer, Jason Marsden, Jim Cummings, Kellie Martin, Rob Paulsen, Pauly Shore, Jenna von Oÿ, and Wallace Shawn. Taking place three years after the events of Goof Troop, the film follows Goofy and his son, Max, who is now in high school, and revolves around the father-son relationship between the two as Goofy embarks on a misguided mission to bond with his son by taking him on a cross-country fishing trip around the United States. This movie explores the themes of adolescent angst and crude humor that are more diverse over Goof Troop.
Disney came up with the idea to make a theatrical animated film starring Goofy while considering ideas for a potential Goof Troop TV special. Lima wanted to expand Goofy as a character and "give him an emotional side" that would resonate with audiences. Most of the cast from the show, including Farmer, Paulsen, and Cummings, reprised their roles while Dana Hill was replaced by Marsden as Max's voice due to the character's age difference. Furthermore, R&B artist Tevin Campbell provided the vocals for Powerline, a fictional celebrity musician who prominently appears in the film, performing the songs "Stand Out" and "I 2 I".
A Goofy Movie was released theatrically in the United States and Canada on April 7, 1995, by Walt Disney Pictures. Because the film had been greenlit by the recently fired Jeffrey Katzenberg, the film's release was deemed by Disney to be a contractual obligation. Its initial release made a meager impression at the box office, grossing $37.6 million against an $18 million production cost, and received mixed reviews from critics. However, with its home media release, the film garnered a cult following and has become a more prominent property within Disney. A direct-to-video sequel to the film titled An Extremely Goofy Movie was released on February 29, 2000.


== Plot ==
Max Goof is an average teenager who pines after his classmate Roxanne, worships the pop star Powerline, and has a tense  relationship with his clumsy, old-fashioned father Goofy, whom he fears turning into. On the last day of school before summer vacation, Max, with help from his friends P.J. and Bobby, hijacks a school assembly and dances while lip syncing to a Powerline song. The performance succeeds in making Max a school celebrity, and he invites Roxanne with him to a viewing party of a live broadcast of Powerline's upcoming concert.
Meanwhile, after learning from school principal Mazur that Max is becoming a juvenile delinquent, Goofy decides to curb his behavior by immediately leaving on a father-son fishing trip to Lake Destiny, Idaho. Unable to admit the truth to Roxanne, Max lies to Roxanne that not only are he and Goofy going to Los Angeles to see the Powerline concert in person, but that Powerline has invited them onstage.
Goofy and Max hit the road, visiting a run-down possum-themed amusement park where Goofy embarrasses Max. The next day, they run into P.J. and his father Pete while camping. Goofy takes his son fishing and shows him the "Perfect Cast" fishing technique, accidentally luring Bigfoot to their camp and forcing Goofy and Max to spend the night in the car with Bigfoot outside. While Goofy sleeps, Max alters the map's route to Los Angeles.
The next morning, Goofy makes Max the navigator of the trip, and the two enjoy several stops together. That night, while staying at the same motel, Pete overhears a conversation between Max and P.J. and informs Goofy that Max has tricked him into traveling to Los Angeles. Goofy still believes Max will do the right thing, but the next morning, Max chooses the route to California, and a frustrated Goof