Gordy is a 1994 American family comedy-drama film directed by Mark Lewis, about a livestock piglet named Gordy who searches for his missing family (who are taken away to a slaughterhouse in Omaha, Nebraska). He experiences the lives of others who are part of the film's side plots, including traveling country music singers Luke McAllister and his daughter, Jinnie Sue; and lonely boy Hanky Royce whose mother, Jessica, is engaged to a sinister businessman named Gilbert Sipes. Gordy changes lives for the people he encounters due to their ability to understand him. The film was distributed by Miramax Films under their Miramax Family Films imprint.
The film features the song "Pig Power in the House" by Tag Team. A music video was produced for the song, featuring clips from the film.


== Plot ==
A piglet named Gordy lives a happy life on Meadow Brook Farm somewhere near Hope, Arkansas. However, after the farmer goes bankrupt, he is forced to sell everything, starting with Gordy's family. Two men arrive in a truck to take Gordy's father, but Gordy is alerted of this by Richard, the farm's rooster. Gordy tries to stop his father from leaving by following the truck taking him, but he tells Gordy to go home and look after the family. Upon returning to the farm, Gordy finds that his mother and siblings were taken in another truck while he pursued his father. Determined to locate his family and return to the farm, Gordy sets out alone to find them. He eventually ends up in the care of Jinnie Sue McAllister, a young country singer who lives in a camper van with her father, Luke, and their "manager", Cousin Jake. Not knowing Gordy's name, Jinnie Sue calls him Pinky.
They travel to a dinner party, where Luke performs for the governor of Arkansas. Also attending are rich businessman Henry Royce, his daughter Jessica, her scheming fiancé Gilbert Sipes, and her lonely young son Hanky. Hanky wanders off on his own and meets Gordy and Jinnie Sue. Hanky falls into the swimming pool, but cannot swim. Just as Jinnie Sue rushes off to get help, Gordy dives into the pool with an inflatable tube, and saves Hanky. Due to Gordy's bravery, he is given to Hanky as a pet, and also becomes suddenly famous.
Henry and Gilbert have alternate decisions on who the new mascot of the Royce Company should be: Gordy or Jessica. In the end, Gordy wins, due to a switched camera lens used on Jessica's promotion. Gilbert is determined to remove Gordy and then take control of the company. Gilbert sends his henchmen, Dietz and Krugman, to kidnap Gordy, but Gordy and Hanky escape by boarding a school bus, which Dietz and Krugman pursue. Gordy and Hanky escape onto a feeding truck and soon unexpectedly meet up with the McAllisters, who learn from the radio that Hanky has apparently run away. Another bulletin follows, revealing Henry has died of a heart attack. The McAllisters return Hanky and Gordy to the Royce building in St. Louis, Missouri where an attorney reveals Henry has left his company to Gordy and Hanky.
Cousin Jake, upon learning Gordy's family is missing, organizes a giant countrywide search to locate them and also a country music concert in Branson, Missouri in Gordy's name. Jim Stafford, Moe Bandy, Boxcar Willie, Cristy Lane, Buck Trent, and Mickey Gilley perform, as well as a surprise speech from President Bill Clinton (voiced by Jim Meskimen), who unveils a new stamp of Gordy. Gilbert sends Dietz and Krugman to kidnap Gordy, tie him in a sack, and toss him in a river, but Gordy is saved by Cousin Jake, who returns him to Hanky and Jinnie Sue. Everyone learns from someone who calls into the telethon that Gordy's family is going to be slaughtered at an unidentified slaughterhouse in Nebraska. Gilbert tries to hide the fact that it is owned by the Royce family. However, a battle ensues between Gilbert and Luke, with Jessica and Luke knocking him out with the suitcase of Brinks, the family attorney. Gordy, Hanky, Jinnie Sue, Jessica, Luke, Cousin Jake, and Brinks