Gossip Girl is an American teen drama television series based on the novel series of the same name written by Cecily von Ziegesar. The series, developed for television by Josh Schwartz and Stephanie Savage, ran on The CW network for six seasons from September 19, 2007, to December 17, 2012.
Narrated by the unknown, omniscient blogger "Gossip Girl" (voiced by Kristen Bell), the series revolves around the lives of privileged upper-class adolescents living in Manhattan's Upper East Side. The series begins with the return of Upper East Side teenage "it girl" Serena van der Woodsen (Blake Lively) from a mysterious absence. She is reunited with her popular frenemy Blair Waldorf (Leighton Meester) and her mother Lily (Kelly Rutherford), and she also meets Dan Humphrey (Penn Badgley)—an aspiring writer from Brooklyn who is one of Serena's main love interests throughout the series. Other main characters include Nate Archibald (Chace Crawford), Chuck Bass (Ed Westwick), Jenny Humphrey (Taylor Momsen), Vanessa Abrams (Jessica Szohr), Rufus Humphrey (Matthew Settle) and Ivy Dickens (Kaylee DeFer).
The success of Gossip Girl led to many adaptations outside the United States. The series received numerous award nominations and won 18 Teen Choice Awards. The CW officially renewed Gossip Girl for a sixth and final season on May 11, 2012. The final season, consisting of 10 episodes, premiered on October 8, 2012, and ended on December 17, 2012.


== Premise ==
The series focuses on a group of privileged teenagers who attend a prestigious high school in the Upper East Side of New York City as their private lives are constantly commented upon by an unknown blogger under the pseudonym "Gossip Girl".
Gossip Girl chronicles the scandals and intimate details of these characters' lives during high school, college, and after. All of their ups and downs are available for the public to read about. Throughout this time, the characters strive to unveil Gossip Girl's true identity.


== Episodes ==


== Cast and characters ==


=== Main ===
Blake Lively as Serena van der Woodsen, a student at the Constance Billard School for Girls. She is an it girl who frequently receives media attention.
Leighton Meester as Blair Waldorf, the queen bee of Constance Billard. She is best friends with Serena and highly focused on status, wealth and academic achievement. Her relationship with Chuck is a key theme throughout all six seasons.
Penn Badgley as Dan Humphrey, an outcast student at St. Jude's School for Boys. Dan initially does not fit in with the Upper East Side teenagers as he lives in Brooklyn and is not a legacy student, but rather attends St. Jude's with a partial scholarship. Dan aspires to be a writer.
Chace Crawford as Nate Archibald, a student at St. Jude's, Blair's childhood boyfriend, and the UES golden boy.
Taylor Momsen as Jenny Humphrey (seasons 1–4; guest, season 6), a student at Constance Billard's and Dan's younger sister. Jenny dreams of becoming a fashion designer, and begins as one of Blair's minions in order to gain status. She later rejects the Upper East Side life and becomes rivals with Blair and sleeps with Chuck.
Ed Westwick as Chuck Bass, a student at St. Jude's. He is the son of one of New York's most successful real estate moguls. Decadent and amoral, Chuck is mainly interested in women and alcohol. Once his father dies in the second season, he inherits Bass Industries and becomes a young billionaire. He is romantically involved with Blair throughout the series but they do not start officially dating until the third season. Blair and Chuck's relationship is a key theme throughout all six seasons.
Kelly Rutherford as Lily van der Woodsen (née Rhodes), Serena and Eric's mother and a three-time divorcée. A former photographer, Lily has become one of the UES's most influential socialites. She and Serena often have a strained and rocky relationship.
Matthew Settle as Rufus Humphrey, Dan and Jenny's father. A former rockstar as the lead singer 