A Grand Day Out with Wallace and Gromit, later marketed as A Grand Day Out, is a 1989 British stop-motion animated short film starring Wallace and Gromit. It was directed, animated and co-written by Nick Park at the National Film and Television School in Beaconsfield and Aardman Animations in Bristol.
A Grand Day Out debuted on 4 November 1989, at an animation festival at the Arnolfini Gallery in Bristol. It was first broadcast on Christmas Eve 1990 on Channel 4. It was followed by 1993's The Wrong Trousers, 1995's A Close Shave, 2005's The Curse of the Were-Rabbit and 2008's A Matter of Loaf and Death. A Grand Day Out was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Animated Short Film in 1991.


== Plot ==
During a bank holiday, the cheese-loving inventor Wallace (Peter Sallis) and his dog Gromit search for places to spend their time. Unfortunately, Wallace has run out of cheese, and is unable to get more given that the shops are shut. Believing that the moon is made of the stuff, they build a rocket, and, with some initial difficulty, launch into space. When they land, as they look for a place to sample the lunar landscape, they encounter a coin-operated robot resembling an oven on wheels. Wallace inserts a coin, but nothing happens. Some time after two leave their initial picnic spot, the robot activates and assesses the belongings and dishes left behind, taking some of them as clean-up.
The robot also discovers one of Wallace's skiing magazines as well, and suddenly develops a yearning to travel to Earth to ski there. As it further assesses the evidence of its new visitors, it repairs a discarded piece of the cheese landscape, issues a parking ticket for the rocket, and is annoyed by an oil leak from the craft. Discovering Wallace as the culprit, the robot sneaks up and is about to strike him with a clubbing baton, but the money Wallace inserted runs out, and it turns off. Wallace, unaware of any trouble, hits his head on the baton anyways as he gets up, but takes it as a souvenir, inserts another coin, and prepares to leave with Gromit.
Reactivating a bit later, the robot sees the two in their preparations. It hurriedly follows, hoping to travel with them to Earth. Wallace notices, and panics, assuming that the robot is angrily pursuing them for taking the cheese, and he and Gromit retreat into the rocket. They attempt to start the engine, but they discover they've neglected to light the rocket's fuse in their panic. Unable to climb the ladder to get into the rocketship, the robot cuts into the fuselage with a can opener. As it fumbles around in the dark, it accidentally knocks a fuel line open and ignites the vapours. The resulting explosion throws the robot clear, but also starts the engine and the rocket safely lifts off anyways.
The robot sadly and angrily resigns to its inability to go to Earth, until it realises that the strips of fuselage it held onto could be fashioned into crude skis. As it now-happily carouses around the lunar landscape, the robot waves goodbye to Wallace and Gromit as they return home.


== Production ==
Nick Park started creating A Grand Day Out in 1982 as a graduation project for the National Film and Television School. In 1985, Aardman Animations took him on before he finished the piece, allowing him to work on it part-time while still being funded by the school. To make the film, Park wrote to William Harbutt's company, requesting 1 long ton (1,000 kg) of Plasticine.
The block he received had ten colours, one of which was called "stone"; this was used for Gromit. Park wanted to voice Gromit, but he realised the voice he had in mind — that of Peter Hawkins — would have been difficult to animate. For Wallace, Park offered Peter Sallis £50 to voice the character, and the actor's acceptance greatly surprised the young animator.
Park wanted Wallace to have a Lancashire accent like his own, but Sallis could only do a Yorkshire voice. Inspired by how Sallis drew out the word "cheese", Park chose to gi