Gremlins 2: The New Batch is a 1990 American  comedy horror film, and the sequel to the 1984 film Gremlins. It was directed by Joe Dante and written by Charles S. Haas, with creature designs by Rick Baker. Zach Galligan, Phoebe Cates, Dick Miller, Jackie Joseph, and Keye Luke reprise their roles from the first film; Belinda Balaski also returns, this time playing a different character. New cast members include John Glover, Robert Prosky, Haviland Morris, Robert Picardo, and Christopher Lee; additionally, the film features Tony Randall providing the voice for one of the gremlins. The story continues the adventures of the creature Gizmo (once again voiced by Howie Mandel), who spawns numerous small monsters when wet. In the first film, Gizmo's offspring rampaged through a small fictional town. In Gremlins 2: The New Batch, Gizmo multiplies within a skyscraper in New York City after his owner dies. The new creatures thus pose a serious threat to the city should they be able to leave the building, and the story revolves around the human characters' efforts to prevent this disaster.
Like the first film, Gremlins 2: The New Batch is a live-action horror comedy film; however, Dante put effort into taking the sequel in new anarchistic directions. Dante created the film to act almost as a parody of the original Gremlins, and it is meant to be more cartoon-like and less dark than the original. Its violence leans more towards slapstick, so the film received a PG-13 rating by the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA). There are also a number of parodies of other films and stories, including the Rambo films, The Wizard of Oz, Marathon Man and The Phantom of the Opera. When released into theaters on June 15, 1990 Gremlins 2: The New Batch received generally positive reviews but was a box office bomb, grossing only $41.5 million on a budget of $30–50 million. Since its release, Gremlins 2: The New Batch has developed a strong cult following.


== Plot ==
After the death of Mr. Wing, the mogwai Gizmo becomes the guinea pig of scientists at a lab in the Clamp Center, a state-of-the-art highrise building in Manhattan owned by eccentric billionaire Daniel Clamp. At the mercy of chief researcher Doctor Catheter, Gizmo is rescued by his former owner Billy Peltzer and his fiancée Kate Beringer, both of whom work elsewhere in the building. Clamp befriends Billy upon being impressed by his skills in concept design, sparking the interest of Billy's superior, Marla Bloodstone. Gizmo is left in the office, where water from a broken drinking fountain spills onto his head and spawns four new mogwai. They trap Gizmo in the air vents and later eat at the building's food court after midnight, becoming gremlins.
After Gizmo exits the vents, the gremlin Mohawk captures and tortures him. The other gremlins set off the fire sprinklers and spawn an army that throws the building into chaos. Billy attempts to lure the gremlins into the lobby, where sunlight will kill them; after Billy briefs Clamp on gremlin knowledge, Clamp exits through a secret tunnel to cover the front of the building in a giant sheet to trick the creatures. The gremlins drink genetic serums in the lab; one gains intelligence, another becomes female and a third becomes a being of pure electricity that murders Catheter before Billy traps it in the building's telephone system. All the while, television host "Grandpa Fred" films the chaos, aided by Japanese tourist Mr. Katsuji.
Murray Futterman, Billy's neighbor from Kingston Falls who is visiting New York City with his wife Sheila, is attacked by a bat-gremlin hybrid immunized to sunlight by the intelligent gremlin with "genetic sunblock". After fending it off, Murray realizes that he has proved his sanity and has to help; when Clamp escapes the building using his secret route, Murray uses it to sneak inside to aid Billy. Chief of security Frank Forster teams up with Billy, but the enamored female gremlin, nicknamed "Greta", chases the for