Gumby is a cartoon character and associated media franchise created by Art Clokey. Gumby is a blocky green humanoid made of clay.
Gumby stars in two television series, Gumby: The Movie, and other media. Upon his debut in 1953, he immediately became a famous example of stop motion clay animation and an American cultural icon, spawning tributes, parodies, and merchandising.


== Overview ==
The Gumby franchise follows Gumby's adventures through different environments and historical eras. His primary sidekick is Pokey, an anthropomorphic orange pony. His arch-nemeses are the G and J Blockheads, a pair of silent antagonistic red humanoid figures with cube-shaped heads, one with the letter G on the block, the other with the letter J. Their creation was inspired by the trouble-making Katzenjammer Kids. Other characters include Prickle, a yellow fire-breathing dinosaur who sometimes styles himself as a detective with pipe and deerstalker hat like Sherlock Holmes; Goo, a flying blue shapeshifting mermaid who spits blue goo balls; Gumbo and Gumba, Gumby's parents; and Nopey, Gumby's dog whose entire vocabulary is the word "nope". The 1988 syndicated series added Gumby's sister Minga, mastodon friend Denali, and chicken friend Tilly.


== History ==


=== 1953–1969: Origins ===
Gumby was created by Art Clokey in the early 1950s after he finished film school at the University of Southern California (USC).
Clokey's first animated film was a 1953 three-minute student film, titled Gumbasia, a surreal montage of moving and expanding lumps of clay set to music in a parody of Disney's Fantasia. Gumbasia was created in the "kinesthetic" style taught by Clokey's USC professor Slavko Vorkapić, described as "massaging of the eye cells". Much of Gumby's look and feel was inspired by this technique of camera movements and editing.
In 1955, Clokey showed Gumbasia to film producer Sam Engel, who encouraged him to develop his technique by animating figures into children's stories. On January 29, 1955, Clokey produced and filmed the first pilot episode starring Gumby, titled Adventures of Gumby: A Sample, but never aired.
The name "Gumby" came from the muddy clay found at Clokey's grandparents' farm that his family named "gumbo". Gumby's appearance was inspired by a suggestion from his wife, Ruth (née Parkander), that Gumby be based on the Gingerbread Man. Clokey saw the color green as both racially neutral and a symbol of life. Gumby's legs and feet were made wide to pragmatically ensure that the figure would stand up during stop motion filming. Gumby's slanted head was based on the hairstyle of Clokey's father, Charles Farrington, in an old photograph.
The pilot episode was seen by NBC executive Thomas Warren Sarnoff, who asked Clokey to make another one. The second episode, Gumby on the Moon, became a huge hit on Howdy Doody, so Sarnoff ordered a series in 1955 titled The Gumby Show. In 1955 and 1956, 25 11-minute episodes aired on NBC. In early episodes, Gumby's voice was provided by Ruth Eggleston, wife of the show's art director Al Eggleston, until 1957 when Dallas McKennon assumed the role. Al Eggleston also invented Pokey, the little orange pony who was Gumby's best friend and was introduced during the earliest episodes.
Because of its variety format, The Gumby Show features Clokey's animations plus interviews and games. During this time, the show had two successive hosts, Robert Nicholson and Pinky Lee.
In 1959, The Gumby Show entered syndication, and more episodes were produced in the 1960s. Production started in Hollywood and in 1960 moved to a larger studio in Glendora, California, where it remained until production ended in 1969. During this time, Gumby was primarily voiced by Norma MacMillan and occasionally by Ginny Tyler. The cartoon shorts introduce new characters including a blue mermaid named Goo and a yellow dinosaur named Prickle.
Several sources claim that Dick Beals also voiced Gumby in the 1960s series. However, Beals himself ref