Gypsy-Rose Alcida Blanchard (born July 27, 1991) is an American woman convicted of second-degree murder in Springfield, Missouri for the death of her mother, Dee Dee Blanchard. She was sentenced to ten years in prison. 
She was paroled after eight years, at the end of December 2023. Given the sensational aspects of Gypsy's childhood, she gained widespread media attention. Hulu produced a limited series, The Act (2019), released while she was still in prison. She has been featured on interviews on a variety of TV shows, and other programs have been based on her story.


== Biography ==


=== Early life ===
Blanchard was born on July 27, 1991, to 24-year-old Clauddine "Dee Dee" Blanchard and 18-year-old Rod Blanchard.
Her mother first began asserting that Gypsy-Rose had an array of different health issues from infancy. Her mother had told her that she had muscular dystrophy and needed a walker. When she was around seven or eight years old, she was involved in a minor motorcycle accident with her grandfather, in which she obtained a minor knee abrasion. After this, Dee Dee had told her that she needed a wheelchair.


=== Move to Missouri ===
After Hurricane Katrina destroyed their Louisiana home, Dee Dee and Gypsy-Rose lived in a rented home in Aurora in southwestern Missouri. During their time there, Gypsy-Rose was honored by the Oley Foundation, which advocates for the rights of feeding-tube recipients, as its 2007 Child of the Year. The whole time Gypsy knew she didn’t need the feeding tube and knew she could walk, but continued with the charade out of fear of her mother. In 2008, Habitat for Humanity built them a small home with a wheelchair ramp and hot tub as part of a larger project on the north side of Springfield, to the east, and the two moved there. The story of a single mother with a severely disabled daughter forced to flee Katrina's devastation received considerable local media attention, and the community often pitched in to help the woman who now went by Clauddinnea Blancharde, and whom they knew as Dee Dee.
Many people who met Gypsy-Rose were charmed by her. Her 4 ft 11 in (1.50 m) height, nearly toothless mouth, large glasses, and high, childlike voice reinforced the perception that she had all the problems her mother claimed she had. Dee Dee regularly shaved Gypsy-Rose's head to mimic the hairless appearance of a chemotherapy patient, allegedly telling her that since her medication would eventually cause her hair to fall out, it was best to shave it in advance; Gypsy-Rose often wore wigs or hats to cover her baldness. When they left the house, Dee Dee often took an oxygen tank and feeding tube with them; Gypsy-Rose was fed the children's liquid nutrition supplement PediaSure well into her 20s.
Dee Dee used physical abuse to control her daughter, always holding her hand in the presence of others. When Gypsy-Rose said something that suggested she was not genuinely sick or seemed beyond her purported mental capacity, she recalls that her mother would squeeze her hand very tightly. When the two were alone, Dee Dee struck her with her open hands or a coat hanger.


=== Growing independence ===
Dee Dee seems to have at least once forged a copy of Gypsy-Rose's birth certificate, changing her birthdate to 1995 to bolster claims that she was still a teenager; Gypsy-Rose said in a later interview that for 14 years, she was unsure of her real age. Dee Dee sometimes also claimed that the original birth certificate was destroyed during the post-Katrina flooding. Dee Dee did keep another copy with Gypsy's true birthdate. Gypsy recalls seeing it during one of their hospital visits and becoming confused; Dee Dee told her it was a misprint.
Gypsy-Rose had attended science fiction and fantasy conventions since 2001, sometimes in costume since she could blend into their diverse and inclusive communities in her wheelchair. At a 2011 event, she made what may have been an escape attempt that ended when her mother found her in a hote