H.O.T. (Korean: 에이치오티; pronounced "H. O. T.", acronym for Highfive of Teenagers) is a South Korean boy band that was created by SM Entertainment in 1996. They are considered to be the first K-pop idol group and their successful formula became the model for many K-pop groups that followed them. The group consisted of five members: Moon Hee-joon, Jang Woo-hyuk, Tony Ahn, Kangta, and Lee Jae-won.
H.O.T. sold over 6.4 million records in South Korea during their career. They were also commercially successful in China and Taiwan, and were among the first stars of the Korean Wave in Asia.
The group broke up in 2001 following a contract disagreement with SM Entertainment, prompting hundreds of fans to stage protests against the company.
Currently, only Kangta, an executive of SM Entertainment, remains at the company.


== Formation ==
Record producer Lee Soo-man, the founder of SM Entertainment, formed the group in 1996 by using information that he had obtained from polling high school students to find out what their idol pop group would be like. The first member to join the group was Kangta, whom Lee discovered at an amusement park. Next to join were friends and singing partners Moon Hee-joon and Lee Jae-won. Jang Woo-hyuk joined the group after attracting Lee's attention by winning first place in a dance contest. Finally, Tony Ahn joined the group after auditioning for Lee in Los Angeles.


== History ==


=== 1996–1997: Debut and breakthrough ===
H.O.T. debuted in September 1996 with the album We Hate All Kinds of Violence, which was a success, selling 1.5 million copies. Their first single, "Descendants of Warriors," was a critique of schoolyard bullying, while their second single, "Candy", was a cheerful bubblegum pop song that established H.O.T.'s  popularity, especially among teenage girls. That year, H.O.T. won Best New Artist at the Golden Disc Awards.
In July 1997, H.O.T. released their second album, Wolf and Sheep, which sold 1 million copies in ten days. The album included the singles "Wolf and Sheep," "Happiness," and "We Are the Future," the first of which was banned from airplay due to its use of strong language. Nonetheless, the album was both commercially and critically successful, winning the Grand Prize at both the 1997 Golden Disc Awards and the 1997 Seoul Music Awards. Additionally, "We Are the Future" was nominated for an International Viewer's Choice Award at the 1998 MTV Video Music Awards. By this time, H.O.T. had become a "social sensation" in South Korea, and with their success came the rise of K-pop fan culture. In 1997, H.O.T. also released their first Chinese album, the sales of which helped the group survive the slump in South Korean record sales that followed the Asian financial crisis.


=== 1998–1999: Resurrection,  controversy and I Yah ===
H.O.T. released their third album, Resurrection, in September 1998. The album, which featured a variety of styles including hardcore hip hop, sold more than 1.1 million copies by the following year. At the 1998 Seoul Music Awards, Resurrection was awarded the Grand Prize, which it shared with Special Album by Sechs Kies. Netizens accused the album of plagiarism on account of alleged similarities between the album's lead single "Line Up!" and "Killing In The Name," a song by American rock band Rage Against the Machine. However, the song won the International Viewer's Choice Award for MTV Korea at the 1999 MTV Video Music Awards.
H.O.T. released a live greatest hits album in April 1999. On June 25, H.O.T. performed alongside Michael Jackson and popular South Korean girl group S.E.S. at a benefit concert in Seoul arranged by Jackson. On September 15, 1999, H.O.T. released their fourth album, I Yah!. The album's title track was about a 1999 fire that killed kindergarten students at the Sealand Youth Training Center in South Korea. The album sold more than 1.3 million copies. Shortly after the album's release on September 18, H.O.T. became the first K-pop group to perf