Hana-bi (lit. 'Fireworks'), released in the United States as Fireworks, is a 1997 Japanese crime drama film written, directed and edited by Takeshi Kitano, who also stars in it. The film's score was composed by Joe Hisaishi in his fourth collaboration with Kitano.
Hana-bi received critical acclaim and won the Golden Lion at the 54th Venice International Film Festival,  helping to establish Kitano as an internationally acclaimed filmmaker; the film has developed a cult following.


== Plot ==
Yoshitaka Nishi is a violent former police detective who had to retire after a tragic accident during a botched arrest in which a detective, Tanaka, was killed by the suspect while two others, Nakamura and Horibe, were severely injured. Becoming unemployed, Nishi spends most of his time taking care of his sick wife Miyuki, who has terminal leukemia. To pay for his wife's care, Nishi borrows money from the yakuza, but is having difficulty repaying them.
Meanwhile, Horibe, who has become paralyzed after the incident, suffers deep depression after his wife and daughter leave him. In a conversation with Nishi, Horibe hints at committing suicide, while adding that he would like to paint but cannot afford to buy himself the necessary materials. After a botched suicide attempt, Horibe receives art supplies mailed to him by Nishi. He then takes up painting and creates surreal works of art, and later in a pointillist style.
Nishi buys a second-hand taxi cab and repaints it in police colors. He arms himself with a revolver and robs a bank dressed as a policeman. Using the money, he pays off the yakuza and gives some to Tanaka's widow. Nishi then leaves with his wife for a road trip. Nakamura learns from Tanaka's widow about the gift and advises her to keep the money. He also learns about the paints for Horibe and soon realizes who committed the robbery. Nakamura and his partner attempt to reach Nishi, eventually tracing his route as he and his wife embark on their trip.
Meanwhile, even though Nishi has paid his debt to them, the yakuza deduce Nishi committed the robbery and attempt to extort additional money from him. The yakuza track down and confronts Nishi, but he kills them all in a violent shootout. The next day, Nishi and his wife are at a beach when they are found by Nakamura and his partner. They prepare to arrest Nishi, but Nishi asks Nakamura to spare him a moment of time and lies alongside his wife on the beach. The couple comforts each other before the camera pans away towards the ocean before two gunshots are heard in the distance.


== Cast ==
Takeshi Kitano as Yoshitaka Nishi
Kayoko Kishimoto as Miyuki, Nishi's wife
Ren Osugi as Horibe
Susumu Terajima as Nakamura
Tetsu Watanabe as Tesuka
Hakuryu as Yakuza Hitman
Yasuei Yakushiji as Criminal
Taro Itsumi as Kudo
Kenichi Yajima as Doctor
Makoto Ashikawa as Tanaka
Yūko Daike as Tanaka's widow


== Production ==
Horibe takes up painting in the pointillist style in order to compensate for his paralysis. In reality, these paintings were painted by Kitano himself, whilst in recovery from an infamous motorcycle accident in August 1994 that left half of his face paralyzed.
Kitano's daughter and former singer, Shoko Kitano, makes a cameo appearance playing a nameless girl flying a kite in the film's closing scenes.
The film's title is sometimes listed as "Hana-bi", "hana-bi" or "Hanabi" on the covers of international DVD releases and other references to the film in the West. However, the official title is actually HANA-BI, fully capitalized, and is used on all Japanese licensed products, including theatrical posters, video covers and OST covers.


== Soundtrack ==

The soundtrack CD was first released in 1998 and 1999 by Milan Records, then reissued by Polydor.


=== Track listing ===
All compositions by Joe Hisaishi.

"Hana-bi" – 3:42
"Angel" – 2:41
"Sea of Blue" – 3:29
"...and Alone" – 2:29
"Ever Love" – 2:15
"Painters" – 5:57
"Smile and Smile" – 2:55
"Heaven's Gate" – 4:59
"Tenderness" – 2:31