Haunted Honeymoon is a 1986 American comedy horror film starring Gene Wilder, Gilda Radner, Dom DeLuise and Jonathan Pryce. Wilder also served as writer and director. The title Haunted Honeymoon was previously used for the 1940 U.S. release of Busman's Honeymoon based on the stage play by Dorothy L. Sayers.
Honeymoon was distributed by Orion Pictures through a deal with HBO. The film flopped  by grossing just short of its $9 million budget, whilst it was panned by the critics. The film earned DeLuise the Razzie Award for Worst Supporting Actress. The film represents the last feature film appearance for Radner (prior to her diagnosis and death from ovarian cancer) and the last directorial role for Wilder.


== Plot ==

Larry Abbot and Vickie Pearle are performers on radio's "Manhattan Mystery Theater" who decide to get married. Larry has been plagued with on-air panic attacks and speech impediments since proposing marriage. Vickie thinks it is just pre-wedding jitters, but his affliction could get them both fired.
Larry's uncle, Dr. Paul Abbot, decides that Larry needs to be cured. Paul decides to treat him with a form of shock therapy to "scare him to death" in much the same way someone might try to startle someone out of hiccups.
Larry chooses a castle-like mansion in which he grew up as the site for their wedding. Vickie gets to meet Larry's eccentric family: great-aunt Kate, who plans to leave all her money to Larry; his uncle, Francis; and Larry's cousins, Charles, Nora, Susan, and the cross-dressing Francis Jr. Also present are the butler Pfister and wife Rachel, the maid; Larry's old girlfriend Sylvia, who is now dating Charles; and Susan's magician husband, Montego the Magnificent.
Paul begins his "treatment" of Larry and lets others in on the plan. Unfortunately for all, something more sinister and unexpected is lurking at the Abbot Estates mansion. The pre-wedding party becomes a real-life version of Larry and Vickie's radio murder mysteries, werewolves and all.


== Cast ==
Gene Wilder as Larry Abbot
Gilda Radner as Vickie Pearle
Dom DeLuise as Aunt Katherine "Kate" Abbot
Jonathan Pryce as Charles "Charlie" Abbot
Eve Ferret as Sylvia
Bryan Pringle as Pfister, the Butler
Peter Vaughan as Uncle Francis Abbot Sr.
Paul L. Smith as Dr. Paul Abbot, uncle
Jim Carter as Montego, the Magician
Jo Ross as Susan Abbot
Roger Ashton-Griffiths as Cousin Francis Jr.
Ann Way as Rachel, Pfister's wife
Matt Zimmerman as Radio Actor #1
Sally Osborne as Mrs. Abbot (Larry's mother)
Howard Swinson as Eddie, the Sound Effects Man


== Production ==


=== Development ===
Wilder wrote the opening scene while filming Silver Streak in 1976. He wanted to make a "comedy chiller" inspired by such films as The Cat and the Canary (1939), The Old Dark House (1932) and The Black Cat (1941), and radio shows like The Inner Sanctum. "Since I was six years old I have been scared of horror movies", said Wilder "And the movies that I liked the best – even though I was scared by them – were what was called then 'comedy-chillers.' They were horror movies yet they had comedy, or they were comedies and yet they had horror. They were not comedy-mysteries, they were not comedy-thrillers, they were comedy-chillers." Wilder says when he started writing the film "I knew I wanted it to be a comedy-chiller", but he struggled and the film wound up as an "autobiographical psycho/sexual comedy with music."
Wilder and Radner fell in love while making Hanky Panky (1982) and he decided to revisit the project as a vehicle for them both. "I always thought that Gilda has been one of our most brilliant television comediennes, but now I think she's becoming more than very good as a comic movie actress, which is a very, very different thing", said Wilder.
Wilder rewrote the script with writing partner, Terry Marsh. "I knew that I wanted it to be not a parody and not a satire, but to re-create a comedy-chiller", said Wilder. "I don't like naturalism. I like things that are fantast