Heaven & Earth is a 1993 American biographical war drama film written and directed by Oliver Stone, and starring Tommy Lee Jones, Haing S. Ngor, Joan Chen, and Hiep Thi Le. It is the third and final film in Stone's Vietnam War trilogy, following Platoon (1986) and Born on the Fourth of July (1989).
The film was based on the books When Heaven and Earth Changed Places and Child of War, Woman of Peace, both authored by Le Ly Hayslip about her experiences during and after the Vietnam War. It received mixed reviews and performed poorly at the box office.


== Plot ==
Le Ly is a girl growing up in a Vietnamese village. Her life changes when communist insurgents show up in the village to defend against the forces of France and then the United States. During the American involvement, Le Ly is captured and tortured by South Vietnamese troops who suspect she is a spy for the North, and later raped by the Viet Cong because they suspect that she is a traitor to the North. After the rape, her relationship with her village is destroyed, and she and her family are forced to move.
Her family moves to Saigon and she is employed by a family there. The master of the household misleads her into believing that he genuinely cares for her, and she falls for him and gets pregnant by him. The master's wife becomes enraged and Le Ly's whole family is forced to move back to their former province. There she meets Steve Butler, a Gunnery Sergeant in the United States Marine Corps. When she first meets him she is not interested in a boyfriend or marriage, having been through so much suffering. Steve falls for Le Ly and treats her very well, making a big difference in her life while in Vietnam.
The two leave Vietnam and move to San Diego. Their life together begins well, but years of killing in the war have taken their toll on Steve, who becomes uncontrollably violent. The relationship falters, despite Le Ly's attempts to reconcile with Steve. After an impassioned plea by Le Ly for Steve to come back to her, he commits suicide. Many years following this tragic experience, Le Ly returns to Vietnam with her sons. She briefly reunites with her eldest's father who she introduces his son to, and he tearfully embraces his son. She then takes her sons to her former village to meet her family and shows them where she came from.


== Cast ==
Tommy Lee Jones as Steve Butler
Joan Chen as Mama
Haing S. Ngor as Papa
Hiep Thi Le as Le Ly
Thuan K. Nguyen as Uncle Luc
Dustin Nguyen as Sau
Vinh Dang as Bon
Mai Le Ho as Hai
Dale Dye as Larry
Debbie Reynolds as Eugenia
Conchata Ferrell as Bernice
Michael Paul Chan as Interrogator
Robert John Burke as G.I. Paul
Tim Guinee as Young Sergeant (as Timothy Guinee)
Timothy Carhart as Big Mike
Annie McEnroe as Dinner Guest #1
Marianne Muellerleile as Dinner Guest #2
Marshall Bell as Dinner Guest #3
Jeffrey Jones as Minister (uncredited)
Donal Logue as Red (uncredited)


== Release ==


=== Theatrical release ===
Heaven & Earth opened in 63 theaters on December 25, 1993. Its widespread release date was January 7, 1994, at which date it was playing in 781 theaters.


=== Reception ===
The film received mixed reviews, in contrast to Stone's previous two Vietnam War films. The review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reported that 43% of critics gave the film a positive review based on a sample of 21 reviews, with an average score of 5.2/10. The site's consensus states: "Heaven & Earth is a well-intentioned glimpse into an underrepresented perspective on Vietnam, but Oliver Stone's solemn storytelling keeps audiences at a fatal distance from Hiep Thi Le's enigmatic heroine." Desson Howe of The Washington Post called the script "structurally clunky" and complained that the film "lacks a poetic center." James Berardinelli noted that the film "lacks much of the narrative strength" of Stone's other Vietnam films, particularly once Jones's character appears. Berardinelli also complained that flashbacks and voiceovers are overdone, although h