Herbie, the Love Bug is a sentient 1963 Volkswagen Beetle which has been featured in several Walt Disney motion pictures starting with the The Love Bug in 1969. As the protagonist it has a mind of its own, being capable of driving itself and often becoming a serious contender in auto racing. Throughout most of the films it is distinguished by red, white, and blue racing stripes from the front to the back bumper, a pearl white body, a racing-style number "53" on the front luggage compartment lid, doors, engine lid, and a yellow-on-black 1963 California license plate with the registration "OFP 857".


== History ==

In The Love Bug (1969), Herbie is bought from the showroom of Peter Thorndyke (David Tomlinson) by San Francisco socialite Mrs. Van Luit for her upstairs maid, but returns it shortly afterward due to reliability problems. Race car driver Jim Douglas (Dean Jones) purchases the car after he is accused of stealing it. Tennessee Steinmetz (Buddy Hackett), Jim's best friend, a mechanic and his housemate, names the car "Herbie" after his uncle, a middleweight boxer whose nose was shaped like the hood of a Volkswagen Beetle. Jim notices the car's unnatural performance levels and decides to take it auto racing, to great success. In addition, Jim pursues a romantic relationship with Carole Bennett (Michele Lee), an assistant in Thorndyke's showroom. Carole eventually sides with Jim, Tennessee, and Herbie. In the final El Dorado road race, Herbie is damaged and splits in two, but wins when the rear half (with Tennessee inside) beats Thorndyke's Apollo GT. Fully repaired, Herbie takes the newlywed Jim and Carole on their honeymoon.
In Herbie Rides Again (1974), Herbie is retired from racing and has been left to Tennessee's widowed aunt, Mrs. Steinmetz (Helen Hayes). Jim has entered racing circuits, Tennessee resides in Tibet. Mrs. Steinmetz and her displaced neighbor, Nicole Harris (Stefanie Powers), try to save her house from being bulldozed by real estate developer Alonzo Hawk (Keenan Wynn) with the help of Herbie and Willoughby Whitfield (Ken Berry), Hawk's nephew.
In Herbie Goes to Monte Carlo (1977), Jim is reunited with Herbie and enters the Trans-France Race with his mechanic, Wheely Applegate (Don Knotts). Herbie soon falls in love with a sentient Lancia Scorpion named Giselle, while Jim develops a relationship with Giselle’s driver, Diane Darcy (Julie Sommars). Herbie is also pursued by a pair of jewel thieves, Max and Quincy, who have hidden the stolen E’toile de Joie diamond in his gas tank. After rescuing Diane and Giselle from a crash into a river, Jim and Wheely drive Herbie to victory, overtaking their main rival, Bruno von Stickle (Eric Braeden), on the ceiling of the Monaco tunnel. 
In Herbie Goes Bananas (1980), Jim has retired from racing and leaves Herbie to his nephew, Pete Stancheck (Stephen W. Burns), who plans to enter him in the Brazil Grand Primeo. In the interim, Herbie befriends an orphan named Paco (Joaquin Garay, III) who gives the Volkswagen the nickname "Ocho" (due to the two digits in Herbie’s number "53" adding to 8). They wreak havoc on board the ship Sun Princess, prompting the overzealous Captain Blythe (Harvey Korman) to throw Herbie overboard. Herbie is rescued by Paco and disguised as a taxi, while they work to stop a gang of con artists from stealing a source of ancient Inca gold.
After returning from Mexico, Herbie is taken back by Jim, who opens a driving school in the TV series Herbie, the Love Bug. In this continuing comic-drama Jim meets a woman named Susan MacLane and her three kids, Julie, Matthew, and Robbie, who become friends with him and Herbie. Businessman Randy Bigelow aims to get Susan back; they had broken up during their wedding. His schemes come to nought as Jim and Susan are married in the series finale. 
Hank Cooper (Bruce Campbell) becomes the owner of Herbie in The Love Bug, the 1997 made-for-television movie. In it, it's revealed Herbie was created by a German engin