"Hideaway" is the debut single by Canadian recording musician Kiesza from her debut EP of the same name (2014) and her debut studio album, Sound of a Woman (2014). The song was released on April 11, 2014 through Island Records and co-writer Rami Samir Afuni's independent label Lokal Legend as the lead single from both the EP and the album. 
Written by Kiesza and its producer Afuni, it was recorded in the summer of 2013 in New York City. "Hideaway" is a deep house song which comes from inspiration from both Kiesza and Afuni's passion for 1990s dance music. Both the song and its accompanying music video have been met with general acclaim from contemporary music critics. "Hideaway" topped the UK Singles Chart upon release, selling over 136,000 copies in its first week, becoming the third-fastest selling single of 2014 in the United Kingdom.


== Background ==
 "Hideaway" was co-written by Kiesza and Rami Samir Afuni, and produced by Afuni. Originally, Kiesza was familiar with composing traditional singer-songwriter music but after moving to New York City and meeting Afuni, she gradually grew into recording more uptempo music. Kiesza began collaborating with Afuni after landing at the Berklee College of Music. During the summer of 2013, Kiesza was preparing to board a flight from New York to Los Angeles when Afuni developed the beat for "Hideaway". Speaking to Jenna McMurray of the Calgary Sun, she mentioned, "I dropped my bags and went back into the studio." After arriving at Rami's studio, Kiesza produced a rough demo version of "Hideaway" before sitting down for ten minutes finishing its lyrics and then cutting vocals for the song. Kiesza freestyled the track's lyrics in an attempt to buy time in case she would miss her flight. The song was written by Kiesza and Afuni in an hour and mixed and mastered half an hour afterward. The development of the song was so brief that Kiesza was still able to board her flight to Los Angeles. In an interview with Hattie Collins of i-D, Kiesza revealed that upon Afuni playing the beat for "Hideaway" she "jumped on the mic and it all came out," adding, "It just felt so natural". While recording the song, Kiesza was inspired by 1990s dance music which her mother would regularly listen to, of which included "big-throated divas" CeCe Peniston and Robin S. At the time, Kiesza had been a songwriter for two years and listened to other recording artists, namely Icona Pop, Kylie Minogue and Rihanna — however still eyeing a solo singing career of her own. As a result, she pursued recording solo material but "never stumbled on something that felt genuine" until "Hideaway" which she saw as a song that defined herself as a singer and connected with who she was. Kiesza and Afuni composed the song as a hybrid of pop and underground elements with the intention of portraying a genuine and different sound. Additionally, the pair were passionate about 1990s dance music and wanted "Hideaway" to serve as reflection of it. After recording the song and flying to Los Angeles, Kiesza received a phone call from Afuni who asked her to return to New York. Following this, Kiesza came to the conclusion that she had discovered a sound that efficiently worked for her and returned to New York to record other songs. In an interview with Michael Cragg of The Guardian, Kiesza revealed:
"I'd written a lot of music and explored different genres but everything else that I was singing, it was more like it wasn't for me. Rather than try and make something work I just decided to not over-think it and the first song I did after that was Hideaway."
Afuni then set up independent label, Lokal Legend to release "Hideaway" as a single, but after moving to London, it later came to Kiesza's realization that she had a potential hit on her hands with "Hideaway", however, at the time she felt she was an outsider in the music industry in the United Kingdom which she described as "very Zeitgeist". As a result, Kiesza held off releasing the track un