The Hollywood Knights is a 1980 American teen comedy film written and directed by Floyd Mutrux. It depicts the crass and mischievous antics and practical jokes of the remaining members of a 1950s-era car club turned social fraternity in and around Beverly Hills and Hollywood in 1965. The cast, led by Robert Wuhl as the fraternity's charismatic leader, features Tony Danza and Michelle Pfeiffer in their film debuts, as well as Gailard Sartain, Fran Drescher, and Stuart Pankin in supporting roles.
It was the inaugural film credit of PolyGram Filmed Entertainment (as PolyGram Pictures), a British studio that aimed to compete with Hollywood.


== Plot ==

On Halloween night in the year 1965, Newbomb Turk is the leader the Hollywood Knights, a car club made up of teenage boys who play pranks, harass the police and display their cars at Tubby's Drive-In restaurant in Beverly Hills, California. Their way of life is about to change because Tubby's is being demolished to be replaced by a new office building. As the Knights find ways to rebel against the plan, they are also busy with the initiation of four new club pledges on Halloween night. After the pledges are stripped, they are deposited in the Watts district of Los Angeles, California, to ensure that the dedication to Tubby's is read on air at 2:00 a.m. that night at a local radio station. The Knights have fun but never for long because, whenever possible, Officers Clark and Bimbeau lecture them about their juvenile behavior.
At Tubby's, Suzie Q, one of the drive-in carhops, and Duke, a fellow Knight and her mechanic boyfriend, argue that she receives too much male attention on the job, and how her desire to be an actress interferes with their relationship. For the teens, Tubby's is the place to talk cars, see friends and arrange races. Jimmy Shine, Duke's friend, has enlisted in the military although he does not expect to see combat in Vietnam because the government is sending advisors not troops.
In the high school parking lot, Newbomb wears a rubber wolf mask in order to seduce girls, but he is recognized and rejected. The Knights ambush the local nerd Dudley Laywicker on his way to a pep rally. Newbomb steals the smart and unpopular nerd student's red “major domo”  band jacket and hat, pretends he is Dudley, and accepts his scholarship award. Afterward, Newbomb performs a song, using the microphone to simulate flatulence until he is chased from the gymnasium. An old codger member of the High School advisory committee tries to file a police complaint on Newbomb for “fahting”.
On the street, Clark and Bimbeau tow Newbomb's older brother's illegal parked El Camino which he is supposed to guard with his life.  Newbomb returns to Tubby's in his parents 1956 Chevy sedan station wagon/delivery vehicle "The pie wagon" (Newbomb's parents own and operate a local bakery), where he tape records a conversation between the Ironbox twins in the women's restroom and starts a food fight.
While driving on Sunset Boulevard, fellow Knight Simpson is worried that the Knights will disappear because so many members have plans after high school, but Wheatly, another Knight, assures him that the club will never die. Later, Newbomb and his buddies urinate in the punch of the Beverly Hills Neighborhood Association Halloween party, the group responsible for Tubby's demise.
On the way to the party's talent contest, Newbomb and his friends ambush Dudley once again and steal his magician's costume. At the party, Newbomb entertains guests by broadcasting his recording of the Ironbox twins’ bathroom gossip. Then, Wheatly pretends to be Sasha Dabinsky, the one-armed violinist, and Newbomb is his piano accompanist. Walking by Newbomb's car, Sally, a high school student, complains to Dark, her collegiate boyfriend, that he is dull compared to Newbomb. When Dark abandons Sally, she invites Newbomb to a pool party at her house. In the car, Sally is disappointed when a romantic moment with Newbomb is interrupted by 