Home Alone 2: Lost in New York is a 1992 American Christmas comedy film directed by Chris Columbus and written and produced by John Hughes. The sequel to the 1990 film Home Alone and the second film in the Home Alone franchise, the film stars Macaulay Culkin, Joe Pesci, Daniel Stern, John Heard, Tim Curry, Brenda Fricker and Catherine O'Hara. It follows Kevin McCallister as he is separated from his family on their holiday vacation to Florida, this time in New York City where he has another encounter with the Wet Bandits after their escape from prison.
Hughes finished writing the film by February 1991, after signing a six-picture deal with 20th Century Fox. Culkin's return was confirmed in May, and the rest of the cast was finalized soon after. Principal photography took place between December 1991 and May 1992, and was done on location in Illinois and New York, including at the Rockefeller Center and the original World Trade Center.
Home Alone 2 was theatrically released in the United States by 20th Century Fox on November 20, 1992. It received mixed reviews from critics, who praised the performances while criticizing its darker tone and violence, as well as its similarities to the first film. The film grossed over $359 million worldwide, becoming the third-highest-grossing film of 1992. A sequel with a new cast, Home Alone 3, was released in 1997. Home Alone 2 is the only Home Alone sequel to feature the majority of the cast from the first film; Devin Ratray reprised his role as Buzz McCallister in the sixth film in the franchise, Home Sweet Home Alone. 


== Plot ==
The McCallister family is preparing to spend Christmas in Miami, and gathers at Kate and Peter's Chicago home. Their youngest son, Kevin, views Florida as contradictory to Christmas, due to its tropical climate and lack of Christmas trees.
At a school Christmas pageant, during Kevin's solo, his older brother Buzz embarrasses him; Kevin retaliates by pushing him, which causes the entire choir to fall and ruins the pageant. At home, Buzz makes a false apology to Kevin, which the family accepts, but Kevin refuses to apologize for his actions and berates his family for believing Buzz's lies and for wanting to spend Christmas in Florida. He storms off to the attic, wishing to have his own vacation alone.
The next morning, the family oversleeps and rushes to the airport. Kevin goes with them, but he becomes separated while carrying Peter's bag and accidentally boards a flight to New York City. Upon arrival, he decides to tour the city and encounters a homeless woman tending to pigeons in Central Park, who scares him off. He uses Peter's credit card to check in at the Plaza Hotel, not knowing that his old rivals, the Wet Bandits (Harry and Marv), now renamed the “Sticky Bandits” due to Marv’s sticky glove, have also reached the city after escaping from prison.
On Christmas Eve, Kevin visits a toy store whose kindly owner, Mr. Duncan, plans to donate the day's sale proceeds to a children's hospital. After Kevin makes a donation, Mr. Duncan gives him a pair of ceramic turtledoves in thanks, instructing him to give one to another person as a gesture of eternal friendship. Kevin encounters Harry and Marv upon leaving the store and flees back to the Plaza. The concierge at the hotel confronts Kevin about his use of Peter's credit card, now reported as stolen; Kevin flees the hotel but is caught by Harry and Marv. Marv mentions his and Harry's plan to rob the toy store before Kevin escapes in an encounter with a female passerby, who slugs Harry and Marv.
Earlier, upon landing in Miami, the McCallister family discover that Kevin is missing and file a police report. After the police trace Peter's credit card, the family flies immediately to New York. Meanwhile, Kevin goes to his uncle Rob’s townhouse, only to find it vacant and undergoing renovations. In Central Park, Kevin encounters and eventually befriends the pigeon lady, who takes him to Carnegie Hall. She explains how her