Homeward Bound II: Lost in San Francisco is a 1996 American adventure comedy film and the sequel to the 1993 film Homeward Bound: The Incredible Journey directed by David R. Ellis. The film features the three pets from the first film, Shadow the Golden Retriever (voiced by Ralph Waite, replacing Don Ameche, who died in 1993), Sassy the Himalayan cat (Sally Field), and Chance the American Bulldog (Michael J. Fox). It also features the voice work of Sinbad, Carla Gugino, Tisha Campbell-Martin, Stephen Tobolowsky, Jon Polito, Adam Goldberg, Al Michaels, Tommy Lasorda and Bob Uecker. In addition, Robert Hays, Kim Greist, Veronica Lauren, Kevin Chevalia and Benj Thall reprised their roles for the sequel. 
The movie was met with mixed critical reception overall, while it fared better with audiences. The film was released on March 8, 1996, and went on to gross over $32 million at the box office.


== Plot ==
The Burnford-Seaver family, owners of Shadow the Golden Retriever, Sassy the Himalayan cat, and Chance the American Bulldog, take a family vacation to Canada; and decide to bring their animals with them. At the San Francisco International Airport, the animals escape after Chance panics while mistaking airport workers for the workers at the pound, after his earlier actions angered Jamie causing Chance to believe that Jamie was sending him back to the pound. In a frenzy, Chance breaks free from his carrier. Shadow and Sassy follow his lead, and together after eluding airport authorities, the animals find themselves in the city of San Francisco. With home on the other side of the Golden Gate Bridge, the trio set out to once again find their way back.
As their journey begins, Chance unintentionally runs into a Boxer and his Bullmastiff friend; named Ashcan and Pete, respectively. Territorial of their terrain, Ashcan refuses to let them pass. As Shadow attempts to explain to them that they are only seeking to find their way home, Ashcan and Pete threaten that they are going to eat Sassy. Shadow begins to fight Ashcan, while Sassy hides safely high upon a nearby window sill. A group of streetwise stray animals known as Riley's Gang, join the confrontation and help overpower Ashcan and Pete. The group explains to the trio that the city is not a safe place for domesticated pets. In the scuffle, Chance had run for safety. Riley sends a member of the gang named Delilah to find him, where she explains that they mean no harm.
Shadow and Sassy make their way through downtown with the rest of Riley's Gang. When a vehicle known as the "Blood Red Van" appears, Riley instructs that they all take cover and explains that the car takes stray dogs off the streets to a place called "the Lab". He further explains that he avoids cars, due to their relation to humans, and he does not trust humans at all. Acknowledging their differences regarding humans, Shadow and Sassy express their thanks to the group and continue to make their way towards the Golden Gate Bridge. While Chance and Delilah make their way through the city, Chance asks about Riley's distrust of humans. She explains that Riley was abandoned by his owners when he was a puppy. Having to adapt to survive as a stray, he created his gang to protect all stray animals from humans. When they make their way through the park, Chance begins to be romantically interested in Delilah.
As Shadow and Sassy continue through the city, Ashcan and Pete continue following them. When the pair come upon a housefire and upon hearing the discussion of frantic parents and the San Francisco Fire Department Battalion Chief, they realize that a young boy and his kitten are still inside the house. Shadow rushes into the home through the basement window to rescue the boy, while Sassy follows after him in search of the kitten. Shadow exits moments later with the boy by his side, as the porch collapses following a sudden backdraft of flames. Sassy joins the rest with the kitten, thereafter. Upon witnessing their heroics, R