Hot Lead and Cold Feet (originally titled Welcome to Bloodshy) is a 1978 American comedy-Western film produced by Walt Disney Productions and starring Jim Dale (in triple roles), Karen Valentine, Don Knotts, Jack Elam and Darren McGavin.


== Plot ==
Mayor Ragsdale (Darren McGavin) and Sheriff Denver Kid (Don Knotts) meet wealthy businessman Jasper Bloodshy (Jim Dale) and his English butler Mansfield (John Williams) on the outskirts of the Wild Western town of Bloodshy in the Arizona territory. Mansfield reveals that Bloodshy's doctors indicate he is severely ill and will die within two days. Surveying the land he will leave to his heirs, Bloodshy shocks the mayor and sheriff by revealing that in addition to his infamous gunslinger son Wild Billy, he has another son named Eli. Bloodshy's wife returned home to England with this second son after childbirth. After revealing that he wrote a new will to include both sons, a huge gust of wind blows Bloodshy into a gorge, presumably to his death. 
Living in Philadelphia, Eli Bloodshy (also played by Jim Dale) works as a Salvation Army missionary with two orphan children named Roxanne (Debbie Lytton) and Marcus (Michael Sharrett). When he receives a telegram informing him both that he has a father and that this father recently died, Eli travels to Bloodshy with Roxanne and Marcus to claim his inheritance.
In the town of Bloodshy, Billy (also played by Dale) has earned a reputation as a hot-headed gunslinger who local residents fear. Mayor Ragsdale--who also owns the local saloon--recruits a group of local outlaws, the Snead brothers, to prevent Eli from arriving in Bloodshy to claim his inheritance.
Eli's stagecoach is held up by the outlaws. Unaware that Jasper's other son is a twin, the two Sneads mistake Eli for Billy. The Sneads return to town, but cause the stagecoach to run off, leaving Eli, Marcus and Roxanne stranded. Heading to Bloodshy by foot, they join Jenny Willingham (Karen Valentine), a teacher who is also headed for Bloodshy to start a school.
Mansfield visits town to present Jasper Bloodshy's will to Sheriff Denver for delivery to Mayor Ragsdale, as Ragsdale will serve as the executor of Bloodshy's estate. The reading of the will reveals that a winner-takes-all contest--the "Bloody Bloodshy Trail"--is involved in awarding the inheritance, including the town, the surrounding land, and an immense fortune.
Upon arriving in the rough-and-tumble town, Eli meets Billy during a stand-off in the saloon. Both soon realize they are identical twins. Ragsdale tells the brothers that their father's will provides for a contest to determine which brother will receive the entire inheritance. Billy and his supporters laugh off the suggestion, believing that Billy easily will win.
Meanwhile, the sheriff is involved in a dispute with Rattlesnake (Jack Elam) over Rattlesnake's sister. Rattlesnake accuses the sheriff of insulting his sister; the sheriff claims he merely asked her to marry him. The two engage in a series of confrontations around town over the next several days.
Secluded outside of town, it is revealed that Jasper Bloodshy faked his own death to keep a watchful eye over his sons' contest. Mansfield provides Jasper updates on Eli's arrival, including that Eli and Billy are identical twins, an apparent surprise to Jasper.
At a revival meeting the night before the contest, Eli announces that he intends to remain in Bloodshy and use his inheritance to build a new church and school. The townsfolk warn Eli to leave town to save his own life. Eli attempts to reason with Billy to cancel the race and combine their inheritance for the benefit of the town. Billy refuses.
The next day, the contest begins. The contest will be an obstacle course involving a series of challenges including operating a train engine, paddling through whitewater rapids, scaling the side of a mountain, crossing a gorge using a rope, and racing a horse-drawn wagon to the finish line.
Observing the race from afa