A love hotel is a type of short-stay hotel found around the world operated primarily for the purpose of allowing guests privacy for sex. The name originates from "Hotel Love" in Osaka. Although love hotels exist all over the world, the term "love hotel" is often used to refer specifically to those located within Japan.


== Distinguishing characteristics ==

Love hotels can usually be identified using symbols such as hearts and the offer of a room rate for a "rest" (休憩, kyūkei) as well as for an overnight stay. The period of a "rest" varies, typically ranging from one to three hours. Cheaper daytime off-peak rates are common. In general, reservations are not possible, and leaving the hotel will forfeit access to the room; overnight-stay rates become available only after 22:00. These hotels may be used for prostitution, although they are sometimes used by budget-travelers sharing accommodation.
Entrances are discreet, and interaction with staff is minimized. Rooms are often selected from a panel of buttons, and the bill may be settled by pneumatic tube, automatic cash machine, or paying an unseen staff member behind a pane of frosted glass. Parking lots will often be concealed and windows will be few, so as to maximize privacy.
Although cheaper hotels are often simply furnished, higher-end hotels may feature fanciful rooms decorated with anime characters, be equipped with rotating beds, ceiling mirrors, karaoke machines, and unusual lighting. They may be styled similarly to dungeons or other fantasy scenes, sometimes including S&M gear.
These hotels are typically either concentrated in city districts close to stations, near highways on the city outskirts or in industrial districts. Love hotel architecture is sometimes garish, with buildings shaped like castles, boats or UFOs and lit with neon lighting. Some more recent love hotels are ordinary looking buildings, distinguished mainly by having small, covered or no windows.


== Around the world ==


=== Hong Kong ===
There are three predominant chained hourly hotel groups (Victoria, Park Excellent, and Kowloon Tong) in Hong Kong since the 90s, as the economy was booming. There were hundreds of nightclubs opening, and many of those girls offer prostitution service (both hourly, overnight), where people usually opted for the cheaper option (hourly) and that play a big role in the growing trend of hourly hotels. But after the era of 2010s, hourly hotels are mainly for couples, because having a personal place is becoming a luxury most people cannot afford.


=== Canada ===
A Japanese-influenced love hotel project in Canada opened its doors in Toronto in early 2019, which was the first and only love hotel in the country to offer an authentic Japanese experience. Due to the love hotel only being a temporary project, it has been closed down since late 2019.


=== Japan ===
The history of love hotels (ラブホテル, rabu hoteru) can be traced back to the 17th century, in the early Edo period, when establishments appearing to be inns or teahouses with particular procedures for a discreet entry or even with secret tunnels for a discreet exit were built in Edo and in Kyoto. Modern love hotels developed from tea rooms (chaya (茶屋)) used mostly by prostitutes and their clients but also by lovers. After World War II, the term tsurekomi yado (連れ込み宿, lit. "bring-along inn") was adopted, originally for simple lodgings run by families with a few rooms to spare. These establishments appeared first around Ueno, Tokyo in part due to demand from Occupation forces, and boomed after 1958 when legal prostitution was abolished and the trade moved underground.
The introduction of the automobile in the 1960s brought with it the "motel" and further spread the concept. Japanese housing trends at the time were characterized by small homes with sleeping areas being used as common areas during the day and, as a result, little opportunity for parents to engage privately in intercourse. Married couples therefore began to 