The House of Yes is a 1997 American dark comedy film adapted from the play of the same name by Wendy MacLeod. The film was written and directed by Mark Waters (in his directorial debut), produced by Robert Berger, and stars Parker Posey, Josh Hamilton, Tori Spelling, Freddie Prinze Jr. and Geneviève Bujold. It was released in the United States by Miramax Films on October 10, 1997. The House of Yes received a divided critical reaction, with Posey winning a Sundance Award and Spelling receiving a Razzie Award nomination.


== Plot ==
On Thanksgiving in 1983, Marty Pascal travels from New York City to McLean, Virginia, to visit his family: mother Mrs. Pascal, younger brother Anthony, and twin sister "Jackie-O". Jackie-O, recently released from a psychiatric hospital, is obsessed with Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis and emulates her style of dress and hairstyle. Marty surprises his family with news he is engaged; he introduces his fiancée Lesly, a waitress at a doughnut store. Lesly's arrival disrupts the family's gathering, and Jackie-O conspires to break the couple up.
It soon becomes apparent that Marty and Jackie-O started an incestuous relationship as teenagers. Jackie-O convinces Marty to play their favorite childhood "game", involving using a gun loaded with blanks to re-enact the Kennedy assassination; she created the "game" as foreplay when he hesitated before the first time they had sex. A horrified Lesly witnesses the encounter and speaks to Anthony, who had already told her of Marty and Jackie's incestuous relationship. He convinces Lesly that he is a virgin, leading to a brief and awkward sexual encounter.
In the morning, Mrs. Pascal talks with the twins about times when Jackie-O shot people, and demands that Anthony hide the gun. Lesly confronts Marty about what she witnessed. Marty breaks down and begs Lesly to return to New York with him. Jackie-O convinces Marty that she will let him leave if he agrees to play the game one final time. She finds the gun, then recalls the events that led to their absent father's departure; Marty claims that he walked out on the family the day of the Kennedy assassination, but Jackie-O believes that he was shot by Mrs. Pascal and buried in the backyard. Jackie-O fires the gun at Marty, now loaded with real bullets, killing him. Footage of Jackie Kennedy is then shown as Lesly screams. Lesly runs from the house and a flashback is shown of Jackie-O in her costume as a teen, being filmed by Marty as she asks him to “stop it”, then gives him a coy smile.


== Cast ==
Parker Posey as Jackie-O
Josh Hamilton as Marty
Tori Spelling as Lesly
Freddie Prinze Jr. as Anthony
Geneviève Bujold as Mrs. Pascal
In addition, Rachael Leigh Cook and David Love have cameos as young Jackie-O and the voice of young Marty, respectively.


== Production and release ==
The House of Yes was reportedly financed entirely by Tori Spelling's father Aaron Spelling and his company Spelling Entertainment. When it was released, director Mark Waters described his own work as "part Gothic revenge drama, part contemporary psychological thriller, and extremely funny." It premiered at the 1997 Sundance Film Festival, where its screening attracted the interest of Miramax. According to Variety, Miramax paid two million dollars to acquire the distribution rights to the film. The House of Yes was given a limited theatrical release beginning on October 10, 1997. The film was a box-office disappointment, grossing only $626,057 on its $1.5 million budget.
It was released to theaters the same month as the slasher film I Know What You Did Last Summer, which was Freddie Prinze Jr.'s breakout role. Prinze Jr. shot I Know What You Did Last Summer after The House of Yes, and remembered in 2020 that he was "such a young, naive actor" at the time, adding that "[Waters] helped me so, so much. He also directed Mean Girls with Lindsay Lohan. He really just pulls beautiful performances out of people."


== Reception ==
On Rotten Tomatoes the film 