Howling II: Your Sister Is a Werewolf (also known as Howling II and Howling II: Stirba – Werewolf Bitch) is a 1985 American horror film directed by Philippe Mora and direct sequel to the 1981 film The Howling. The film stars horror film veteran Christopher Lee along with Reb Brown and Annie McEnroe as they try to defeat Sybil Danning's werewolf queen Stirba and stop a werewolf group's plans to conquer the world. Although Gary Brandner, author of The Howling novels, co-wrote the screenplay, the Howling II: Your Sister Is a Werewolf is largely unrelated to his 1979 novel The Howling II.


== Plot ==
Ben White (Reb Brown) attends the funeral of his sister, journalist Karen White, the heroine of the previous film. Following her interment in a mausoleum, Ben meets both Jenny Templeton (Annie McEnroe), one of Karen's colleagues, and Stefan Crosscoe (Christopher Lee), a mysterious interloper who tells him Karen was a werewolf. Providing videotaped evidence of the transformation—and turning up to destroy Karen as her undead body rises from the grave—Crosscoe convinces Ben and Jenny to accompany him to Transylvania to battle Stirba (Sybil Danning), an immortal werewolf queen. Along the way, the trio encounter Mariana (Marsha Hunt), another lusty werewolf siren, and her minion, Erle (Ferdy Mayne).
Arriving in the Balkans, Ben and company wander through an ethnic folk festival, unaware that Stirba is off in her nearby castle already plotting their downfall. Stefan introduces Ben and Jenny to several locals who are sworn to oppose Stirba due to the deaths of their various family members, all of whom were killed either by Stirba or her followers. One night, Ben and Vasile find Stirba's castle nearby but are forced to flee after being spotted and Vasile is killed in the escape. Stirba later uses Vasile's reanimated corpse to lure Stefan into a trap but is saved by Ben at the last minute. During this, Jenny is captured and taken to Stirba's castle. 
Ben, Stefan, Konstantin, Luca and Father Florin assault the castle but are ambushed by Stirba's werewolves; Konstantin and Luca are killed in the battle and Father Florin is injured. Arriving at the castle, the three split up to locate Jenny and kill Stirba. Ben rescues Jenny, killing Mariana in the process, and flees the castle while Stefan and Father Florin confront Stirba. Florin is killed by Stirba's demon but Stefan manages to kill Stirba, who burns to death with her. 
Sometime later, Ben and Jenny have returned to the United States and are living as a couple. A trick-or-treater knocks on their door and they are confronted by what appears to be a child in a werewolf costume. After the child goes into the apartment next door, they knock on the door and are met by a Romanian man who claims that he does not have any children and lives alone. Declining his offer to come in for a drink, Ben and Jenny return to their apartment.


== Cast ==
Christopher Lee as Stefan Crosscoe
Annie McEnroe as Jenny Templeton
Reb Brown as Ben White
Marsha Hunt as Mariana
Sybil Danning as Stirba
Valerie Kaplanová as old Stirba
Judd Omen as Vlad
Jiří Krytinář as Vasile
Petr Skarke as Konstantin
Ferdy Mayne as Erle
Jimmy Nail as Dom
Patrick Field as Deacon
Ladislav Krečmer as Father Florin
Ivo Niederle as Grigorie
Jan Kraus as Tondo


== Production ==
While the first The Howling was a financial hit, producer Steven Lane never saw any of the profits due to the poor financial standing of Avco Embassy Pictures which offset several unrelated costs towards The Howling and consuming much of the film's revenue in the process. As Lane had bought out co-producer Jack Crawford prior to the first film's release, he possessed the sequel rights but couldn't make a direct-sequel to the original film as those rights belonged to Avco Embassy. As Lane was determined to turn a profit from his participation in The Howling, he entered into a deal with Hemdale Film Corporation.Philippe Mora became involved as he directed A Breed Apart for 