Cinder Jack (Hungarian: Hamupipöke) is a Hungarian fairy tale first collected by Hungarian author and poet János Erdélyi in the mid-19th century. It is classified in the international Aarne-Thompson-Uther Index as tale type ATU 530, "The Princess on the Glass Hill".


== Translations ==
The tale was translated into German language as Aschenbrödel by German author Gottlieb Stier.


== Summary ==
A peasant has three sons and owns a vineyard. He orders his three son to guard it, and sends the elder on the first night. The youth takes out a cake to eat and a frog appears to him, asking if he can share the food. The elder  son takes out a stone and shoos the frog away, then shuts his eyes, heavy with sleep. When he wakes up, he sees that the fields have been destroyed. The second son is also ordered to watch the vineyard, but he also falls asleep and fails.
After his elder brothers fail, the youngest, named Cinder Jack, for he always sat on the ashes, asks his father to let him hold a night watch, just like the other two. His father laughs at the idea, but still indulges his son's wishes and lets him go for a turn in their vineyard. The same frog appears to Cinder Jack, who acts kindly towards it and shares his food. In return, the frog rewards him with three rods, "of copper, silver and gold", with which to tame three horses that have been trampling his father's vineyard. Just as the frog predicted, the three wild horses appear, of the same colour as the rods, and Cinder Jack strikes each with the respective rods. Now tamed, the three horses calm down and spare the vineyard.
Some time later, on a Sunday, the king sets a challenge: he erects a high fir pole in front of the church and ties a golden rosemary; whoever gets it in one jump on horseback, shall marry the princess. Many knights assemble to try their luck in getting the rosemary. Suddenly, a mysterious knight, clad in copper armor and on a copper horse, rides into the crowd, jumps very high, grabs the rosemary, and rides away. Cinder Jack's brothers go back home and tell his brother about the mysterious knight. The youth then says he actually saw the knight, from up the hoarding. His brothers then destroy it so their cadet cannot see anything more.
The next Sunday, the king sets a similar challenge: he erects an ever higher pole, and places a golden apple on it. Once again, many knights assemble to try their luck, but only a mysterious knight in silver armour, on a silver horse, beats the challenge, jumping very high and fetching the golden apple. Cinder Jack's brothers return home and tells their cadet about the knight in silver, and the youth says he watched the events from the pigsty, which is broken down.
On a third Sunday, the king places a silk handkerchief interwoven with gold in a higher pole, for another round of challenges. Once again, a mysterious knight, this time in golden armour and riding a golden horse, comes and claims the handkerchief for himself, after jumping very high. This time, Cinder Jack tells his elder brothers he saw everything from the roof of the house, so they break down the roof.
Finally, the king announces that the mysterious knight should appear before him with the prizes so he could be married to the princess, but the winner does not come. Then, he orders every men to be brought before him, and still the knight does not appear, until the man in question arrives on the golden horse. When he lifts his visor, it is Cinder Jack. The youth rebuild his brothers' house, then gets to marry the princess and reign after his father-in-law.


== Analysis ==


=== Tale type ===
The Hungarian National Catalogue of Folktales (MNK) classifies the tale as type AaTh 530, Az üveghegyi királykisasszony ("The King's Daughter of the Glass Mountain"): a man's three sons either guard their fields at night, or hold a vigil at their father's grave at night, but only the third and youngest son is successful, and obtains three wonderful páripas ('horses'), which he us