The Hunted is a 2003 American action thriller film directed by William Friedkin. It stars Tommy Lee Jones as a retired civilian contractor and SOF Trainer, who is tasked with tracking down a former student of his played by Benicio del Toro who has gone rogue; Connie Nielsen also stars.
The film was released on March 14, 2003. It received mixed reviews from critics and grossed $46 million against its $55 million budget.


== Plot ==
The film begins with  U.S Army Sergeant First Class Aaron Hallam, a member of Delta Force, fighting as part of a unit in the Kosovo War. He single-handedly assassinates a genocidal Serbian military leader, and is awarded a Silver Star. However, Hallam is left wracked with PTSD, combat stress reaction, and nightmares due to the atrocities he witnessed.
Years later, in Silver Falls State Park, Oregon, Hallam encounters two apparent deer hunters with expensive high-powered sniper rifles. He accuses them of not being genuine hunters due to using scopes and guns. The two men pursue him, but are outmatched by Aaron’s tactics and traps, and are brutally murdered.
Meanwhile, L.T. Bonham, a former civilian survival and combat instructor for spec ops soldiers, lives in a secluded cabin deep in British Columbia. He frees a white wolf from a snare trap, treating its injury, then locates and knocks out the man who set it in a bar, warning his friends not to use them again.
Sometime after, L.T. is approached by the FBI, who enlists his aid in apprehending the perpetrator of the killings. Bonham agrees and joins the FBI task force led by Abby Durrell. Arriving at the crime scene, he proves that one man with a knife was responsible for the hunters’s deaths, not several men with hatchets as previously believed by the agents. L.T. convinces Abby to let him track the killer on his own, but she insists that he take an FBI radio.
Bonham discovers Hallam's personal effects in a small cave just before the assassin appears, and recognizes him as one of his students. Hallam asks Bonham why he never answered the letters he sent, but L.T. demands to know why Aaron killed those hunters. His protege explains that he believes the men were “sweepers” sent by the government to eliminate him. Bonham fails to talk Hallam into surrendering, and the two come to blows before Hallam is tranquilized and taken into custody by the FBI who tracked L.T’s radio.
During his interrogation, Aaron is un-cooperative, rambling about the slaughter of chickens, and only wants to talk to Bonham, who urges him to remain silent about his black operations. L.T, when questioned by Abby, admits that his father (an Army Colonel) prevented him from joining the military after his brother died in the Vietnam War to avoid losing another son. He followed his Dad’s footsteps and took up tracking, before being contracted by the Armed Forces. 
The FBI is then forced to hand Hallam over to three of his fellow JSOC operators led by Dale Hewitt, who arrives with a letter authorizing taking possession of the prisoner. Hewitt tells them that Hallam lost control during a post-Kosovo mission, killing numerous innocent civilians, and can’t stand trial because his military assignments are classified. While being transported, Aaron manages to kill the operatives and escape.
L.T hears news of the crash and immediately travels to the scene along with the FBI. Bonham and Durell go to the house where Hallam’s former girlfriend, Irene Kravitz and her daughter Lorena reside, suspecting her of sheltering the fugitive. Abby tries to convince her to give him up, while Bonham discovers Aaron in an upstairs bedroom. The two have a tense stand off and stare-down, but he flees out of a window when Abby shows up to detain him. L.T follows, and narrowly dodges a car Hallam steals from his partner’s garage. Later, Durell and Bonham discover Hallam’s effects in a wooden compartment, along with a letter accusing L.T of sending men to kill him, confirming his paranoid mental state.
Relentlessl