The Hunt for Red October is the debut novel by American author Tom Clancy, first published on October 1, 1984, by the Naval Institute Press. It depicts Soviet submarine captain Marko Ramius as he seemingly goes rogue with his country's cutting-edge ballistic missile submarine Red October, and marks the first appearance of Clancy's most popular fictional character, Jack Ryan, an analyst working for the Central Intelligence Agency, as he must prove his theory that Ramius is intending to defect to the United States.
The Hunt for Red October launched Clancy's successful career as a novelist, especially after then-U.S. President Ronald Reagan remarked that he had enjoyed reading the book. A film adaptation was released on March 2, 1990, and several computer and video games based on the book have been developed. The book was instrumental in bringing the book genre of techno-thriller into the mainstream.


== Plot summary ==
During the Cold War, Soviet Navy submarine commander Marko Ramius plans to defect to the United States with the Typhoon-class ballistic missile submarine Red October. It is equipped with a "caterpillar drive", a cutting-edge silent propulsion system that makes audio detection by passive sonar difficult and enables the submarine to sneak its way into American territorial waters and launch nuclear missiles with little to no warning. As the sub leaves the shipyard at Polyarny, Ramius kills his political officer to ensure that he will not interfere. Ramius was ordered to conduct military exercises with Soviet Alfa-class attack submarine V. K. Konovalov, commanded by his former student Viktor Tupolev, to test the effectiveness of the caterpillar drive. Instead, he plots a course for the North American coast, falsely informing the crew that they will be proceeding undetected all the way to Cuba. Before sailing, Ramius sends a letter to Admiral Yuri Padorin stating his intention to defect; the Soviet Northern Fleet then sails out to sink Red October under the pretext of a search and rescue mission.
Red October passes near USS Dallas, a Los Angeles-class submarine under the command of Bart Mancuso, which is patrolling the entrance of a route used by Soviet submarines in the Reykjanes Ridge off Iceland. Dallas's sonar operator hears the sound of the stealth drive but does not identify it as a submarine. As tensions rise between the US and Soviet fleets due to the unannounced incursion of the Soviet Northern Fleet into Atlantic waters, the crew of Dallas analyzes tapes of Red October's acoustic signature and realizes that it is the sound of a new propulsion system. Meanwhile, CIA analyst Jack Ryan determines that the submarine's new construction variations house a stealth drive.
Putting information about the letter together with the subsequent launch of the entire Northern Fleet, Ryan deduces Ramius's plans to defect. The US military reluctantly agrees to assist, while planning for contingencies in case the Soviet fleet has intentions other than those inferred. Ryan becomes responsible for shepherding Ramius and his submarine away from the pursuing Soviet fleet and meets with Royal Navy acquaintance Admiral John White, commanding a task force from the aircraft carrier HMS Invincible.
After Ramius fakes a reactor accident, the US Navy evacuates Red October' crew using a DSRV rescue submarine. Ramius and his officers stay behind, claiming that they plan to scuttle the submarine to prevent it getting into the hands of the Americans. To convince the Soviets that Red October has in fact been destroyed, a decommissioned US ballistic missile submarine, USS Ethan Allen, is blown up underwater as a deception. A depth gauge taken from Red October's main instrument panel is made to appear as if it had been salvaged from Ethan Allen's wreckage. Meanwhile, Ryan, Mancuso, some of the Dallas crew, and Owen Williams board Red October and meet Ramius face-to-face.
The deception succeeds in convincing Soviet observers that Red October has b