Hustler White is a 1996 film by Bruce LaBruce and Rick Castro, a satirical black sex comedy about gay hustlers and their customers on Santa Monica Boulevard in West Hollywood, California. It stars Tony Ward and LaBruce in an addition to the Queer Cinema canon, which is also an homage to classic Hollywood cinema. Also appearing in the film are Vaginal Davis, Glen Meadmore and Graham David Smith.
In a plot reminiscent of Sunset Boulevard, Hustler White transposes the action from the silver screen's old movie backlots to contemporary male prostitution and the porn industry. The film, which like all of LaBruce's work is sexually explicit, includes a controversial amputee sex scene. Co-director Rick Castro cast real male hustlers and his former models, including Tony Ward, as amateur actors. They also used the hustlers' homes (and other cast members' including Ron Athey's house in Silver Lake Hills) as location spots for filming.
Portions of the film appear in the music video for "Misogyny" a track by Canadian rock band Rusty which appeared on MuchMusic and Musique Plus in the 1990s.


== Synopsis ==
The film starts with Monti Ward (Tony Ward), a male prostitute, dead in a jacuzzi. Then in a voice over, Monti describes the circumstances that led to his fate.
Jürgen Anger (Bruce LaBruce), a writer from Europe, is in California researching a book on the gay prostitution and pornographic scene in Hollywood. While touring Santa Monica Boulevard, he meets Monti hustling on the street and develops a crush on him. Throughout the movie we discover various facets of Monti, including committing a hit and run which cripples a fellow hustler named Eigil (Kevin P. Scott). Jürgen unsuccessfully follows the devastatingly handsome rent-boy. As Jürgen continues his pursuit of the young man, the film follows Monti through his typical routine of various sordid and bizarre encounters with hustlers, johns and pornographers.
Finally Jürgen can get Monti to show him various places in the gay prostitution scene of Hollywood. They end up at Jürgen's apartment, where Monti trips on a soap and remains unconscious in the jacuzzi. Jürgen finds him and pulls him out of the water, thinking he is dead. He brings him to the beach to dump his body in the ocean, but Monti wakes up. The two of them end up running hand in hand on the beach.


== Cast ==
Tony Ward as Montgomery Ward
Bruce La Bruce as Jürgen Anger
Alex Austin as Alex
Kevin Kramer  as Kevin
Ron Athey as Seymour Kasabian
Glen Meadmore as Stew Blake
Ivar Johnson  as Piglet
Kevin P. Scott as Eigil Vesti
Graham David Smith as Ambrose Sapperstein
Miles H. Wildecock II as Peter Festus
Bud Cockerham as Bud Cockram
Michael Glass as Mrs Glass
Vaginal Davis as Buster Boote
Joaquín Martínez as Ryan Block
Darryl Carlton as Divinity Fudge
Tony Powers as himself
Paul 'Superhustler' Bateman as Billy Ray Jaded
Barry Morse (credited as Dimitri Xolt) as Roger V. Deem
Paul Bellini as Roger's Secretary
Matt Johnstone as UCLA Student Driver
Max Millan as Amerikka
Sean McAndrew  as  Hustler Twin #1
Ryan McAndrew  as  Hustler Twin #2
Stephen Mounce as Daddy's Boy Hustler
Brent Hoover as Hustler
Merie Morris as Hustler
Billy Mauro as JFK Jr. Lookalike Hustler
Rocco Haze as Monti's Baby
Antonio Lee Klatt as Slave Hanging from Ankles
Chris Berry as Porno Mexican Wrestling Extra
Rick Castro as Clumsy Porno Cameraman


== References ==


== External links ==
Hustler White at IMDb