I Still Know What You Did Last Summer is a 1998 slasher film directed by Danny Cannon and written by Trey Callaway. Jennifer Love Hewitt, Freddie Prinze Jr. and Muse Watson reprise their roles, with Brandy, Mekhi Phifer and Matthew Settle joining the cast. It is the second installment in the I Know What You Did Last Summer franchise. The film takes place one year after the events of I Know What You Did Last Summer. It received negative reviews and grossed $40 million on a budget of $24–65 million. A direct-to-video standalone sequel, I'll Always Know What You Did Last Summer, was released in 2006.


== Plot ==
One year after the brutal murders of her friends Helen Shivers and Barry Cox by the vengeful fisherman Ben Willis, Julie James is attending summer classes in Boston, but suffers from nightmares of the incident. Julie's roommate, Karla Wilson, receives a phone call from a local radio station and wins a vacation for four to The Bahamas. Julie invites her boyfriend, Ray Bronson, who, despite initially declining, decides to go. That evening, Ray and his co-worker, Dave, drive to Boston to surprise Julie, but stop due to a body in the middle of the road. When Ray discovers the body is a mannequin, Ben appears and kills Dave with his hook, then chases Ray in a truck, but Ray escapes and falls down a hill.
The next morning, Julie, Karla, Karla's boyfriend, Tyrell Martin, and their friend, Will Benson, depart for the trip. The group arrives at the hotel in Tower Bay and checks in. Elsewhere, Ray, at the hospital, disappears. That evening at the hotel's bar, Julie is singing karaoke when the words "I still know what you did last summer" roll on-screen. Terrified, she runs back to her room. Will confesses he likes Julie. Darick, a dockhand, is tying up a boat when he is then murdered by Ben. Afterwards, Olga, the housekeeper, finds bloody sheets. Ben then slices her, dragging her into a room. The others get into a hot tub while, Julie, in her room, is unable to find her toothbrush. She searches her room before finding Darick dead in the closet. Horrified, she informs them, but Darick's body is missing; Mr. Brooks, the hotel manager, refuses to believe her story. Mr. Brooks notes they are unable to leave the island due to an incoming storm. By the pool, Titus Telesco is murdered. Ray, who has survived his injuries, heads out to rescue Julie.
The next day, the group finds Olga, Titus, and Mr. Brooks murdered and the two-way radio, their only way of contact, destroyed. Isolated, the group goes to the room of Estes, the boat hand porter, and finds that he has been using voodoo against them. Estes appears, explaining he was trying to protect them after realizing that their answer to the radio station's question was incorrect. He tells them that Ben and his wife, Sarah, had two children: a son and a daughter. Ben murdered Sarah when he found out about an affair. Estes goes missing and Will volunteers to find him, while Ray takes a boat to the island. Julie, Karla, and Tyrell return to the hotel and find Nancy, the bartender, hiding in the kitchen.
Ben appears in the kitchen and kills Tyrell. The girls retreat to the attic, where Karla is attacked by Ben. Julie and Nancy rescue Karla and run to the storm cellar, where they find Ben's victims. Will bursts in and takes the girls back to the hotel, stating that he saw Ben on the beach. At the hotel, Will tells them that Estes attacked him and he is bleeding from the stomach. Nancy and Karla leave to find a first aid kit, but find Estes impaled with a harpoon. Ben appears, kills Nancy and attacks Karla. While Julie tends to Will, he reveals that it is not his blood and asks Julie what her favorite radio station is, revealing that he was the radio host and had killed Estes.
Will drags Julie to a graveyard, where he reveals that he is Ben's son. Ben appears and attacks Julie before Ray arrives and engages in a fight with Will. When Ben tries to stab Ray, he accidentally kills Will instead. Whi