I Married a Strange Person! is a 1997 American independent adult animated comedy film by Bill Plympton.


== Plot ==
  
As the film begins, a brown bird in flight becomes infatuated with a blue bird, and they begin to mate in midair. After passing through a cloud they fall into a nosedive, eventually striking a satellite dish on top of a house belonging to Mr. Grant Boyer- Grant is then struck by a beam of mysterious energy. Soon afterward - and now married to a woman named Keri - a strange power begins to manifest itself in Grant which seems to wildly affect the state of reality, people and objects based on his whims, daydreams, and imagination. This frightens his wife Keri while they try to make love, and they both soon travel to her parents' house to have dinner while discussing this problem with her mother. Her parents express that they did approve of her Keri's marriage to Grant, and at dinner Grant's powers are inflicted upon Keri's mother and father through insects and musical instrumentation while Grant initiates a dance with his confused wife.
A broadcasting company called Smilecorp is in desperate need of higher ratings. Led by a power-hungry man named Larson P. Giles, he proceeds to demonstrate his militant cruelty upon his television show pitchmen through the use of his underling Col. Ferguson. Back at Grant's home he witnesses his next-door neighbor Bud Sweeny cutting his lawn, and proceeds to assist the grass by anthropomorphizing it - the grass then attempts to eliminate Bud with his own mower, though he is saved by Grant who transforms the mower into a large, friendly caterpillar. While Grant stands perplexed by what he both did and witnessed, Bud runs into his house to call the popular Jackie Jason Variety Show and inform them of Grant's amazing powers. Meanwhile, Keri Boyer lies crying and wondering about her husband, though when Grant tries to comfort her about the lasting nature of their love Keri becomes overweight with wrinkles temporarily and to her great terror. After making up, they proceed to make love, but Keri grows increasingly frustrated with Grant's inability to control his wild powers, affecting her for the duration of the scene.
Grant later readies for an appearance on the Jackie Jason Show, sharing a dressing room with a once legendary yet now washed-up comic named Solly Jim; Grant confides to Solly that his wife Keri may leave him due to his bizarre condition and the commotion it has caused. Solly goes on first but does quite badly with his act; it is then shown that a boil-like bump on the back of Grant's neck is the source of his chaotic abilities. After saving Solly's act the comedian gives Grant his business card and address, offering his future services in gratitude for his aid, though as Grant walks onto the set an attendant covers his boil with a bandage which prevents his powers from being used. After struggling for a time, the bandage falls off causing an immense amount of power to manifest from Grant which partially destroys the studio. This event both boosts the Jackie Jason Show's ratings greatly as well as catching the attention of Smilecorp and its leader Larson P. Giles. Larson commands his Col. Ferguson to bring Grant Boyer back to him alive, much to the Colonel's detriment.
Back at home Grant's wife Keri has shut herself away from him to think her life through; it is at this moment that Col. Fergsuon arrives with Smilecorp tanks and infantry to capture him. Meanwhile, Larson has deduced through observation and x-rays of Grant that a strange beam of light - reflected by the bent satellite dish on top of his house and various other objects on his property - had created the boil on the back of his neck when the two birds struck it at the start of the film. Larson seeks to harness and control this power, though Grant manages to elude the Smilecorp captors with both his powers and with the help of the friendly caterpillar from earlier. Colonel Ferguson meanwhile deals with his fai