Janeane Garofalo ( jə-NEEN gə-ROF-ə-loh, born September 28, 1964) is an American comedian, actress, and former co-host on Air America Radio's The Majority Report.
Garofalo began her career as a stand-up comedian and became a cast member on The Ben Stiller Show, The Larry Sanders Show, and Saturday Night Live, then appeared in more than 50 movies, with leading or major roles in  The Truth About Cats and Dogs, Wet Hot American Summer, The Matchmaker, Reality Bites, The Wild, Steal This Movie!, Clay Pigeons, Sweethearts, Mystery Men, The Minus Man, and The Independent.  She has been a series regular on television programs such as Wet Hot American Summer: First Day of Camp, 24, Girlfriends' Guide to Divorce, and Ideal.
Garofalo continues to circulate regularly within New York City's local comedy and performance art scene.


== Early life ==
Garofalo was born in Newton, New Jersey, the daughter of Joan and Carmine Garofalo. Her mother was a secretary, in the petrochemical industry, who died of cancer when Janeane was 24. Her father is a former executive at Exxon. She grew up in various places, including Ontario, California; Madison, New Jersey; and Houston, Texas, where she graduated from James E. Taylor High School. Garofalo had said that she disliked life in Houston because of the heat and humidity and the emphasis on prettiness and sports in high school.
While studying history at Providence College, Garofalo entered a comedy talent search sponsored by the Showtime cable network, and won the title of "Funniest Person in Rhode Island." Her original gimmick was to read off her hand, which was not successful in subsequent performances. Dreaming of earning a slot on the writing staff of the TV show Late Night with David Letterman, she became a professional standup on graduating from college with degrees in history and American studies. She struggled for a number of years, even working briefly as a bike messenger in Boston.


== Entertainment career ==


=== Stand-up comedy ===

Garofalo officially began her career in stand-up comedy in the mid-1980s during the pre-grunge era. Her appearance was often in line with very mid-1980s style: disheveled with thick black glasses and unkempt hair. Her comedy is often self deprecating; she has made fun of popular culture and the pressures on women to conform to body image ideals promoted by the media.
When in San Francisco, Garofalo was a frequent guest at the San Francisco Comedy Condo.
Garofalo's comedy shows involve her and her notebook, which is filled with years' worth of article clippings and random observations she references for direct quotes during her act. Garofalo has said that she does not tell jokes as much as make observations designed to get laughs. She was part of the alternative comedy scene in Los Angeles in the early 1990s, appearing at Un-Cabaret and other venues and co-created the "Eating It" alternative stand-up comedy show, which ran at Luna Lounge on the Lower East Side of New York City between 1995 and 2005, frequently hosting the show and appearing as a performer.
She appeared on HBO's Comedy Half-Hour and Comedy Hour specials in 1995 and 1997, respectively, among similar subsequent appearances, including a one-hour stand-up special entitled If You Will, performed at Seattle's Moore Theatre that aired on Epix in June 2010 and was released on DVD in September 2010.


=== Film career ===
Garofalo has performed a variety of roles in more than 50 feature films, playing leading or large roles in The Truth About Cats & Dogs, I Shot a Man in Vegas, The Matchmaker, Clay Pigeons, Steal This Movie!, Sweethearts, Mystery Men, The Independent, Wet Hot American Summer, Manhood, Ash Tuesday, and Bad Parents.
Her first movie role, filmed the year before she appeared on national television, was a brief comical appearance as a counter worker in a burger joint in Late for Dinner in 1991. Her breakthrough role came in Reality Bites (1994) as Winona Ryder's character's Gap-managing best f