I Woke Up Early the Day I Died is a 1998 American camp black comedy film, based on a unproduced screenplay written by Edward D. Wood Jr. in 1974. Wood originally wrote the script in 1961 as Silent Night, then rewrote it in 1974 as I Awoke Early the Day I Died, but he died before he could get it filmed.
The 1998 film, directed by Aris Iliopulos, stars Billy Zane, Tippi Hedren, Ron Perlman, Sandra Bernhard, Karen Black, Eartha Kitt, Summer Phoenix, and Christina Ricci, among many others who appear in cameos. The film has no dialogue, containing only atmospheric sounds, alternating bursts of laughter, and screams. Several of Wood's collaborators from the 1950s were featured in bit parts, including Maila Nurmi, Conrad Brooks, David Ward and Wood's widow Kathy O'Hara Wood.
In the film, a fleeing thief and murderer accidentally attends a strange funeral at a forbidden cemetery. He tries to hide his loot within the coffin, but falls unconscious and loses track of the stolen cash. He awakes determined to locate everyone present at the funeral, in hopes that he can retrieve the cash.


== Plot ==

Overpowering a nurse and dressing in her clothes, a madman escapes from the Casa de la Loco Sanitarium. The Thief then goes on a crime spree that nets him a gun, a car, a fortune in stolen cash, and one dead loan office manager. 
As he escapes the murder scene, he comes upon a forbidden cemetery just as a burial is taking place, replete with bagpipe music and a bizarre ceremony employing tuning forks and strange icons. As the undertaker, the caretaker, and an odd assortment of mourners leave the service, The Thief peers into the coffin, thinking it is a good place to hide his briefcase full of ill-gotten gains.
As he strikes the tuning fork that is buried with the robe-draped skeleton, bagpipe music fills the air and throws him into convulsions. The coffin lid slams shut, locking his money inside, and The Thief is thrown into an open grave, knocking himself unconscious. When he awakens, he sets off to track down everyone who had been present at the funeral in an attempt to find his missing cash, killing anyone who gets in his way.


== Cast ==
Billy Zane as The Thief
Ron Perlman as Cemetery Caretaker
Tippi Hedren as Maylinda Austed / Professional Mourner
Andrew McCarthy as Cop
Will Patton as Preacher
Carel Struycken as Undertaker
Max Perlich as Assistant Undertaker
John Ritter as Robert Forrest / Professional Mourner
Karen Black as Honey Child
Sandra Bernhard as Sandy Sands / Professional Mourner and Stripper
Eartha Kitt as Cult Leader
Ann Magnuson as Loan Secretary
Abraham Benrubi as Bouncer
Christina Ricci as Teenage Hooker
Jonathan Taylor Thomas as Boy At Beach
Michael Greene as Tom Harris, Professional Mourner / Barfly
Roberta Hanley as Housewife
Rain Phoenix as Bartender #1
Summer Phoenix as Bartender #2 / Girl At The Beach
Tara Reid as Prom Queen / Nightclub Bartender
David Ward as Cruiser Cop #1
Rick Schroder as Cruiser Cop #2
Nicollette Sheridan as Ballroom Woman
Gregory Sporleder as Loan Manager
Steven Weber as Policeman In Alley
Kathleen O'Hara Wood as Woman At Carnival
Billie Worley as Fat Taxi Driver
Lee Arenberg as Parking Lot Attendant
Mark Boone Junior as Cop #3
Conrad Brooks as Cruise Cop #3
Leif Garret as Cruiser Cop #4
Dana Gould as Carnival Barker
Michael G. Hagerty as Flop House Manager
Denice D. Lewis as Star Stripper
Maila Nurmi as Woman In Hotel Lobby
Bud Cort as Shopkeeper Lord Heinrich "Binky" Alcoa III (uncredited)


== Production ==
Shortly after the release of the Tim Burton biopic Ed Wood in 1994, a renewed interest in Wood's work led to the script for "I Woke Up Early the Day I Died" getting optioned by first-time filmmaker Aris Iliopulos. Iliopulos got actor Billy Zane interested in the project. Zane agreed to star in and co-produce the film. During filming, the filmmakers used many techniques that Wood himself would use, such as including stock footage to save on filming expenses. 


== Release ==
The film prem