Idle Hands is a 1999 American teen horror comedy film directed by Rodman Flender, written by Terri Hughes and Ron Milbauer, and starring Devon Sawa, Seth Green, Elden Henson, Jessica Alba, and Vivica A. Fox. The film's plot follows the life of an average lazy stoner teenager, Anton Tobias, whose hand becomes possessed and goes on a killing spree, even after being cut off from his arm.
The film's title is based on the saying "idle hands are the Devil's play-things" or "the devil makes work for idle hands". The film received negative reviews from critics and bombed at the box office, grossing $4.2 million from an estimated $25 million budget. Despite this, it has since gained a cult following.


== Plot ==
Mr. and Mrs. Tobias are settling into bed when they notice a message on the ceiling claiming someone is under the bed. They hear a noise from outside and as Mr. Tobias goes to check what the noise was, Mrs. Tobias calls the police, but she gets dragged under the bed and killed.
Anton, their lazy stoner son, hasn't noticed their disappearance in seven days. One morning, Anton runs out of weed and goes to his friend Pnub's house to get some more, but he says he's run out of weed too. Pnub and his other friend Mick suggest that Anton should go and talk to his neighbor Molly, the girl that he likes. He sees Molly dropped her lyrics book and goes to return it, but he ends up being awkward and fleeing her porch. 
Meanwhile, a druidic high priestess named Debi LeCure is hunting the spirit responsible for killings across the country. She seems very passionate a determined to stop the evil hand and races to Anton’s town upon hearing about the murders. As Anton is returning from shopping, he’s stopped by two young police officers he used to go to school with. They search and bust him for having an empty baggie on him and littering after one of the cops drops it on the ground. Anton goes home and smokes oregano and nutmeg using the cite as rolling papers. Realizing that was a mistake, he goes to the kitchen to wash his mouth out and makes himself a sandwich. When going to spread mayonnaise on it, the knife he’s using is covered in blood and his cat Bones playing with an eyeball. Running in a panic, he trips and finds his parents' corpses.
Mick and Pnub show up and Anton shows them the bodies, then they figure out that Anton is the killer. Mick tries to call 911, but Anton pulls out the phone cord and claims that he isn't the killer, but he murders Mick with a glass bottle. Anton promises Pnub that he didn't mean to do it, but they find out Anton's hand is possessed. His hand chases Pnub into the basement and tries to stop his hand so Pnub can escape, but his hand overpowers him and decapitates Pnub. Anton's hand throws Bones out the window and he goes to look for him, but the hand pulls him onto Molly's porch and rings her door bell. Molly takes Anton into her room to make out, but her parents come home so Anton leaves. Anton buries his friends' and parents' corpses in his backyard, but Mick and Pnub come back as zombies and knock him out.
Back at Anton’s house, he awakes believing he had a terrible dream and runs to tell his friends, finding them still zombies and snacking on his couch. They tell him that his neighbor Randy knows about all things Satan and demons and that he might have some advice for Anton. Anton finds Randy at a fast-food place and asks for help which he replies that he needs to keep his hands busy with other tasks so it won’t kill any more people. The same two police officers from before arrive at his house responding to a noise complaint. They enter his house upon seeing Mick and Pnub’s zombified bodies and accuse Anton of being the killer. After a short confrontation Anton’s hand kills the two cops in his living room. Fed up, Anton flees to his kitchen and cuts off his hand with a cleaver. Pnub and Mick seek out a First-Aid Kit while Anton traps the hand in a microwave, burning it.
Meanwhile, Debi, teaming up with 