Ilsa, She Wolf of the SS is a 1975 exploitation film about a sadistic and sexually voracious Nazi prison camp commandant. The film is directed by American filmmaker Don Edmonds and produced by David F. Friedman for Cinépix Film Properties in Montreal. The film stars Dyanne Thorne in the title role, who is loosely based on Ilse Koch, a convicted war criminal and overseer at the Buchenwald concentration camp.
Upon its release in early 1975, the film was immediately met with widespread controversy and critical derision, with Gene Siskel calling it "the most degenerate picture I have seen to play downtown". Particular criticism was directed at the film's graphic violence, which includes depictions of castration, flogging, human experimentation, and many other forms of torture. Word of mouth quickly spread, and the film was a considerable financial success, becoming a staple of grindhouse and drive-in theatres.
The popularity of the film led to the creation of three sequels, each of which saw Thorne reprise her role. The film's infamy eventually evolved into a considerable cult following, with the character of Ilsa becoming a pop cultural icon ubiquitous with "strong, aggressive" female authority. The film is considered one of the prominent entries of the Nazi exploitation sub-genre, and to a lesser degree the sexploitation sub-genre.


== Plot ==
In 1945, Ilsa is commandant of a Nazi concentration camp. She conducts sadistic scientific experiments designed to demonstrate that women are more capable of enduring pain than men are and should therefore be allowed to fight in the German military. A sadistic authoritarian, Ilsa has a voracious sexual appetite for men, choosing a new male prisoner each night to sleep with. However, owing to her hypersexuality, she is disappointed when her victims inevitably ejaculate and promptly has them castrated and put to death.
After killing her latest victim, Ilsa oversees the arrival of a new batch of male and female prisoners. Though dismissive and dehumanizing of the majority of her wards, she becomes enamoured by the presence of Wolfe, a blond-haired and blue-eyed prisoner who, unlike his compatriots, resembles the Nazi Aryan ideal. Wolfe, a German American student who had been studying in Berlin before the war broke out, tells his cellmate Mario, one of Ilsa's former victims, that he has the ability to ejaculate at will, allowing him to have sex with incredible endurance and skill. Wolfe demonstrates this when, called to Ilsa's bedroom at night, he manages to bring her to orgasm, becoming her first repeat partner whom she willingly spares.
Having gained Ilsa's confidence, Wolfe begins plotting revolt with Mario and a group of female prisoners who have borne the brunt of Ilsa's abuse. Meanwhile, Ilsa is made gradually more anxious by news of Allied forces breaking through German defenses. Believing that the enlistment of women into the German military will help stem the tide, Ilsa tries to convince a visiting general of her theories of female supremacy by showing him the various inhumane experiments she has subjected her female prisoners to. The impressed general awards Ilsa the Iron Cross for her efforts, while forcing her to fulfill his nascent urolagnia by giving him a golden shower.
With Germans forces in retreat, the prisoners revolt, killing most of the camp guards and rounding up the surviving staff. Ilsa is tied to her bed with her stockings by Wolfe during a sex game, before he steals her gun and helps his comrades. Wolfe pleads with the other prisoners to leave the staff to be captured and tried by Allied forces, but they insist that they'll escape punishment and summarily execute them. With retreating German forces fast approaching, Wolfe and a lone female prisoner escape into the nearby hills as the remaining prisoners, including Mario, resolve to fight to the death. They are attacked by a Waffen-SS tank unit, which quickly wipes out the prisoners.
The unit's commander disembarks an