An inspector-general of police is a senior police officer in the police force or police service of several nations. The rank usually refers to the head of a large regional command within a police service, and in many countries refers to the most senior officer of the entire national police.


== Bangladesh ==
In Bangladesh, the Bangladesh Inspector General of Police heads the Bangladesh Police.


== Ghana ==
In Ghana, Inspector General of Police is the title of the head of the Ghana Police Service.


== India ==
During the British Colonial era, the British Parliament introduced the Indian Councils Act 1861 in India. The act created a new cadre of police, called Superior Police Services, later known as the Indian Imperial Police. The highest rank in the service was the Inspector General. This rank is equivalent to Joint Commissioner of police in metropolitan areas.
Currently, in modern India, an inspector-general of police (IGP) is an officer from Indian Police Service. In a state, an IGP holds the third-highest rank in the hierarchy, just below the rank of additional director general of police and above deputy inspector general of police.  IGP-ranked officers wear gorget patches on their collars. Although it has a dark blue background which is similar to DIGs and SSPs, an oak leaf pattern is stitched on the patch; unlike DIGs and SSPs, which have a white line stitched on the patch.


== Indonesia ==

In Indonesia, an inspector-general of police (inspektur jenderal polisi or abbreviated irjen (pol)) holds the third-highest rank of the Indonesian National Police (equivalent to a major general in the Indonesian National Armed Forces). Usually, police with rank inspector-general of police became a chief of regional police department with type-A classification (capital city, strategic and major/densely populated provinces), chief of divisions, special staff to the chief of national police, or deputy head of any agency under the police's territory.


== Kenya ==
In Kenya, the inspector-general of police is the senior most police officer, who has the overall command of the Kenya National Police Service. In the event of a vacancy arising, the procedure for appointment of the inspector-general is: 

within 14 days the National Police Service Commission (hereafter "the commission"), by notice in the gazette and at least two other daily newspapers of national circulation, declares the vacancy, and requests for applications;
the commission conducts public interviews and shortlists at least three persons qualified for the position which are then published in the Gazette;
within seven days from shortlisting, the commission forwards the shortlisted names to the president for nomination;
within seven days of receipt of the names, the president nominates a person for appointment and submits the name of the nominee to parliament for approval;
within fourteen days thereafter, parliament vets and considers the nominee, and either approves or rejects the nomination;
parliament notifies the president as to its approval or rejection;
if parliament approves the nominee, within seven days of receiving the notification the president, by notice in the gazette, appoints the nominee as the inspector-general of the National Police Service .
where parliament rejects the nominee submitted by the president, the speaker of the National Assembly communicates its decision to the president and requests a fresh nominee.
in submitting a new nominee, within seven days the president submits to parliament a fresh nomination from among the persons shortlisted and forwarded by the commission.
The IG is charged with the overall administrative management of the police force, exercises independent command over the National Police Service and performs any other functions prescribed by national legislation. Consequently, the inspector-general reports directly to the president and is also a member of the National Security Council, chaired by the president.  Under the IG are t