An inspector general is an investigative official in a civil or military organization. The plural of the term is "inspectors general".


== Australia ==
The Inspector-General of Intelligence and Security (Australia) (IGIS) is an independent statutory office holder who reviews the activities of the six Australian intelligence agencies under IGIS jurisdiction.
The Inspector-General of the Australian Defence Force conducts internal reviews of administrative action, investigates Service Police professional standards breaches and other significant incidents including Service deaths, and reviews and audits the operation of the military justice system independently of the chain of command. The Inspector-General Australian Defence Force is appointed by the Minister for Defence.


== Bangladesh ==
The chief of police of Bangladesh is known as the inspector general of police. He is from the Bangladesh Civil Service police cadre. The current inspector general of police is Dr. Benazir Ahmed, and his predecessor was Dr. Javed Patwary. There is another temporary post of inspector general of police, known as Pulish Shômônnoyôk (Bengali: পুলিশ সমন্বয়ক্) or "police coordinator", currently held by Bivuti Vooshon Choudhury.


== Canada ==
Before 1867, the position of Inspector General of Canada existed as the minister responsible for finances and government spending in the Province of Canada. After 1867 the position was assumed as the Minister of Finance. Alexander Galt served as the last Inspector General from 1858 to 1867 and the first Minister of Finance in 1867.


== Colombia ==

Colombia's inspector general is a unique post with broad powers to investigate government malfeasance and to bar public officials from running for office.


== France ==

In the French Civil Service, an inspector general (inspecteur général) is a member of a body of civil servants known as inspection générale, generally of a high level, charged with a nationwide mission to inspect some specific services and provide government officials with advice regarding that service. Most ministries have their own inspectorates general, including for instance:

Inspection Générale des Finances (IGF; Ministry of Finances)
Inspection Générale des Affaires Sociales (IGAS; Social Security)
Inspection générale de l'administration (IGA; various administrative departments, e.g. prefectures)
Inspection générale de l'Éducation, du Sport et de la Recherche (Ministries of National Education, Youth and Sport, and Higher Education and Research)
The inspection générale des Finances is particularly prestigious as a job appointment after studies at the École Nationale d'Administration. In recent decades, many of its members have occupied various high positions in lieu of their traditional mission of inspection. The corps has come under increased criticism for this.
Within the uniformed services, "inspector general" can refer to both a rank (especially within the police) and a job title within an inspectorate general, the best known of which are:

Within the Inspection générale des Armées (Inspectorate General for the Armed Forces):
the Inspector General of the Gendarmerie (Inspecteur général de la gendarmerie nationale);
the Inspector General of the Army (Inspecteur général de l'Armée de Terre);
the Inspector General of the Navy (Inspecteur général de la Marine);
the Inspector General of the Air Force (Inspecteur général de l'Armée de l'air et de l'espace);
the Inspector General of Armament (Inspecteur général de la Direction générale de l'armement);
the Inspector General of the Health Service (Inspecteur général du Service de santé des Armées)
Within civilian uniformed services:
the Inspector General of Police (Inspecteur général de la Police nationale);
the Inspector General of Civil Defence (Inspecteur général de la Sécurité civile).
Despite often similar names and an apparently similar structure, different inspectorates general often have significantly differing roles.


== Germany ==
Duri