It Takes Two is a 1995 American romantic comedy film starring Kirstie Alley, Steve Guttenberg, and Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen. The title is taken from the song of the same name by Marvin Gaye and Kim Weston, which is played in the closing credits. The film was distributed by Warner Bros. through their Warner Bros. Family Entertainment label.
The film focuses on two lookalike girls who meet by chance in a summer camp. One is an orphan girl and the other a wealthy heiress. The girls decide to act as matchmakers for their respective parent figures. 


== Plot ==
Amanda Lemmon is a nine-year-old orphan who is being sought after by the Butkuses, a reclusive and secretive family known to "collect" kids via adoption. However, she wants the likeable and warm-hearted Diane Barrows, her social worker, to adopt her instead. Unfortunately for Amanda, authorities will not let Diane adopt Amanda due to the former's low salary, unmarried status, and social worker position even though Diane wants to adopt Amanda. 
While at a summer camp, Amanda meets a rich girl her age named Alyssa Callaway, who looks just like her. Alyssa has just come home from boarding school, only to find that her billionaire father and the camp's owner, Roger, is about to marry Clarice Kensington, an overbearing, self-centered, gold-digging socialite.
Amanda and Alyssa soon become acquainted, each longing for the other's life and decide to switch places. While Amanda adapts to Alyssa's wealthy lifestyle and Alyssa experiences summer camp, they get to know the other's parental figure and realize that Roger and Diane would be perfect for each other. Desperate to set them up, the girls arrange many meetings between them, hoping that they will fall in love.
Roger and Diane seem to hit it off upon meeting, as she is pleasantly surprised with his kindness and humbleness despite his wealth, and Roger, with Diane's help, works up the courage to visit the camp again, which he has not done since his wife (Alyssa's mother) died due to painful memories of her untimely death when Alyssa was born.
After seeing Roger and Diane laughing and swimming together in the lake one afternoon, Clarice manipulates Roger into moving the wedding up from the following month to the next day, and Amanda, while posing as Alyssa, finds out that Clarice plans on sending Alyssa to boarding school in Tibet afterwards. Alyssa ends up being adopted by the Butkuses without Diane's knowledge while posing as Amanda.
A few hours before the wedding, Amanda tells the Callaways' butler, Vincenzo, that she is not Alyssa. He visits Diane at the orphanage and tells her about the switch. Diane then goes to the Butkuses' residence to pick up the real Alyssa and get her to the wedding. However, nobody is at the Butkus residence and a neighbor tells Diane that the reason why the Butkuses adopted so many kids was to work them in their salvage yard as slaves. Furious, Diane takes Roger's company helicopter to the salvage yard, reclaims Alyssa (disguised as Amanda), and threatens to report the Butkuses to social services, giving their other adopted children hope for salvation.
Vincenzo and Amanda try their best to stall the wedding. As Roger hesitates to say, "I do", he recalls all the good times that he and Diane had and realizes that he has fallen in love with her and cannot marry Clarice. Suddenly, Diane bursts into the church with Alyssa behind her. At that moment, Roger confesses his love for Diane to Clarice, who furiously slaps him. Clarice tries to do the same to "Alyssa", blaming her for ruining the wedding, but is stopped by Vincenzo. 
As Clarice storms down the aisle, the real Alyssa steps out from behind Diane. Clarice declares that there is a "conspiracy", thinking that there are two Alyssas. She tries to slap the real Alyssa but Diane steps forward in time, barking "Back off, Barbie" at Clarice, and calmly informs Clarice that she has something in her teeth. Humiliated, Clarice moves to storm out of the church