Jack Frost is a 1998 American dark fantasy drama film directed by Troy Miller and starring Michael Keaton and Kelly Preston. Keaton plays the title character, a father and musician killed in a car accident, only to be brought back to life in the form of a snowman via a magical harmonica. It received negative critical reviews and became a box-office bomb, grossing just $34 million against a budget of $40–85 million.
Three of Frank Zappa's four children, Dweezil Zappa, Ahmet Zappa, and Moon Unit Zappa, appear in the film.


== Plot ==
Jack Frost is the lead singer in a rock band based in the fictional town of Medford, Colorado. His focus on his music and hopes that the band will sign a record deal leads him to neglect his family, including his 11-year-old son Charlie.
Charlie and Jack build a snowman together, and Jack gives Charlie his best harmonica, which he got the day Charlie was born. He jokingly tells Charlie that it's magical and that Jack will be able to hear it wherever he is. Jack promises his wife Gabby that he will attend Charlie's hockey game, but misses it in favor of recording a new hit song. To make up for it, Jack then promises to take his family on a Christmas trip to the mountains but is then called in on a gig that could make or break his career. On his way to the gig, Jack realizes his mistake and borrows his best friend (and the band's keyboardist) Mac MacArthur's car to go to the mountains to meet his family. Unfortunately, Jack encounters a bad snowstorm, crashes the car, and is killed.
A year later, Charlie has fallen into depression over his father's death, with Gabby comforting him at his side during an emotional snow-shoveling breakdown. One night, he makes another snowman that bears as much resemblance to Jack as he can remember and plays Jack's harmonica just before going to sleep. The harmonica turns out to be magical after all, as it revives Jack, transferring his spirit into the snowman. Jack attempts to greet Charlie, but ends up terrifying him instead. After Jack uses his nickname "Charlie boy", Charlie realizes that the snowman is his father. Jack reconnects with Charlie and teaches him the values that he never got when he was alive. Jack convinces Charlie to rejoin his hockey team instead of continuing to grieve over his death. Meanwhile, Mac continues to be a friend of the family, while also becoming a father figure to Charlie.
On a warm Christmas Eve, Jack begins melting and struggles to get to Charlie's hockey game, but is successful in doing so. Afterward, Charlie decides to take Jack to the mountains where it is colder, but has a difficult time convincing Gabby to do so. Jack and Charlie arrive at the isolated cabin that the family was going to stay at for Christmas before Jack's death. Jack calls Gabby, nonchalantly asking her to come to the cabin to pick up Charlie; Gabby is shocked, but recognizes his voice and obliges. Jack tells a disheartened Charlie that he has to leave. When Gabby arrives, the snowman shell dissipates without the scarf, gloves, and hat, revealing a human Jack in an ethereal form. Jack tells Charlie he will be with him wherever he goes and, after saying farewell and giving his love to both his wife and son, returns to the afterlife.


== Cast ==


=== Live action ===


=== Puppeteers ===
Denise Chershire Pearlman as Jack Frost (head operator)
Bruce Lanoil as Jack Frost (in-suit performer)
Denise Cheshire as Jack Frost (in-suit performer)
Allan Trautman as Jack Frost (additional puppeteer)


== Production ==
The costume for Jack Frost's snowman form was created by Jim Henson's Creature Shop. George Clooney was originally set to star as Jack Frost and Jim Henson's Creature Shop made the character look like Clooney before Clooney left the project. Sam Raimi was originally attached to direct the film but when Clooney dropped out he dropped out as well. When Raimi was first attached, the film was envisioned as a more direct adapatation of Frosty the Snowman including 