Jakob the Liar is a 1999 American war comedy-drama film directed by Peter Kassovitz, produced by Steven Haft and Marsha Garces Williams, and written by Kassovitz and Didier Decoin. The film is based on the book of the same name by Jurek Becker. The film stars Robin Williams, Alan Arkin, Liev Schreiber, Hannah Taylor-Gordon and Bob Balaban. The film is set in 1944 in a ghetto in German-occupied Poland during the Holocaust and tells the story of a Polish-Jewish shopkeeper named Jakob Heym, who attempts to raise the morale inside the ghetto by sharing encouraging rumors that he claims to have heard on a radio. It is a remake of the 1975 East German-Czechoslovak film Jakob der Lügner.


== Plot ==
In early 1944 Poland, a Polish-Jewish shopkeeper named Jakob Heym is summoned to the German headquarters after being falsely accused of being out after curfew. While waiting for the commander, Jakob overhears a German radio broadcast speaking about Soviet offensives. Returned to the ghetto, Jakob shares his information with his friend Mischa. Radios are strictly prohibited in Jewish ghettos, punishable with death, but Mischa confides in some folks, and it quickly sparks rumors that Jakob has a secret radio.
After hesitating, Jakob decides to use the opportunity to spread hope throughout the ghetto by continuing to tell the optimistic tales that he has been allegedly hearing on his secret radio. His lies give some hope and humor to the isolated ghetto inhabitants. He also has a real secret; he is hiding a young Jewish girl who escaped from an extermination camp deportation train.
However, the Gestapo learns of the mythical radio and begins a search for the resistance hero who dares to operate it. Jakob surrenders himself to the Germans when they demand the person with the radio give himself up or risk hostages being killed. During interrogation, Jakob tells the police commander that he had merely listened to the radio inside the commander's office. He is ordered to announce publicly that his radio and its reports were all lies, so that the ghetto's liquidation would proceed in an orderly fashion. However, when presented to the public, Jakob refuses to tell the truth, and is shot and killed before he can make his own speech.
Jakob says, post-mortem, that all of the ghetto's residents were deported and were never seen again.


== Cast ==
Robin Williams as Jakob Heym
Alan Arkin as Frankfurter
Bob Balaban as Kowalsky
Liev Schreiber as Mischa
Armin Mueller-Stahl as Dr. Kirschbaum
Hannah Taylor-Gordon as Lina Kronstein
Mark Margolis as Fajngold
Nina Siemaszko as Rosa
Michael Jeter as Avron


== Production ==
Jakob the Liar was filmed in Budapest, Hungary (the birth city of director Peter Kassovitz), as well as Lódz and Piotrków Trybunalski, Poland. While filming in Budapest, Robin Williams made an apperance on Friderikusz Show, the most popular Hungarian television talk show at the time.
As in the novel, an alternate ending was made for the film in which, following Jakob's death, the train carrying the Jewish prisoners to the concentration camp is halted by Soviet troops and the occupants released.


== Reception ==
Produced on a budget of $45 million, the film was released on September 24, 1999. According to Box Office Mojo, it opened in 1,200 theaters and made $2,056,647 in its opening weekend, placing eighth at the box office. The film's total domestic gross was $4,956,401.
The film holds a rating of 29% on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 72 reviews, with an average rating of 4.7/10. The site's consensus states: "Any real story is buried by awkward performances and contrived situations."
Roger Ebert of the Chicago Sun-Times gave the film two stars out of four, comparing it to the similarly themed Life Is Beautiful by saying, "I prefer Life Is Beautiful, which is clearly a fantasy, to Jakob the Liar, which is just as contrived and manipulative, but pretends it is not." He went on to say about the acting in the film: "Williams is a talented performe