The Jamaica Inn is a traditional inn on Bodmin Moor in Cornwall in the UK, which was built as a coaching inn in 1750, and has a historical association with smuggling. Located just off the A30, near the middle of the moor close to the hamlet of Bolventor, it was originally used as a staging post for changing horses. The 1,122-foot-high (342 m) "Tuber" or "Two Barrows" hill, is close by.
The inn was the setting for Daphne du Maurier's 1936 novel Jamaica Inn, about the nocturnal activities of a smuggling ring, "portraying a hidden world as a place of tense excitement and claustrophobia of real peril and thrill." In the novel, it was transformed into a rendezvous and warehouse for smuggling that was solely the home of the landlord and his wife. The novel has been adapted into various media, most famously an eponymous 1939 film directed by Alfred Hitchcock. However, the inn itself has never actually been used as a filming location.
The inn is also referenced in "Jamaica Inn", a song by Tori Amos from her album The Beekeeper (2005), written while she was driving along the  cliffs in Cornwall, and inspired by the legend she had heard of the inn.


== Location ==
Jamaica Inn is on Bodmin Moor, near Bolventor. Brown Willy is situated four miles (six kilometres) to the north, while Rough Tor is nearby, as are the valleys of Hantergantick and Hannon. Dozmary Pool is situated 1+1⁄2 miles (2.5 kilometres) south of the inn, while a branch of the Fowey estuary is 1⁄2 mile (800 metres) west. Spread over 3⁄4 acre (0.3 hectares) of land, the Jamaica Inn has been refurbished and functions as an exclusive bed and breakfast establishment, with a pub, a museum and a gift shop. Bodmin is connected by road with St Austell railway station, which is on the London-Penzance Cornish Main Line. The farm where British astronomer John Couch Adams was born is nearby. Other landmarks include the Four-hole Cross, Peverell's Cross, the circular entrenchment near Cardinham, and the Knights Templar church ruins at Temple. Between the inn and Kilmarth, a house near Par, can be found hut circles, stone lines and parts of ancient stream works.


== History ==
Though an inn has stood on the main road (modern A30, before the bypass was built) through the hamlet since 1547, the current building dates from 1750. It was extended in 1778 with a coach house, stables and a tack room assembled in an L-shaped fashion. It is often commonly thought that the inn takes its name from the smugglers who smuggled rum into the country from Jamaica and stored it at the inn. However, the name of the inn is actually said to derive from the important local Trelawney family of landowners, of which two family members served as Governors of Jamaica in the 18th century.
Cornwall has been very aptly described as the "haven of smugglers" in view of its topographic features of "rocky coves, sheltered bays, tumultuous waves and wild and untenanted landscapes".
The inn became a smugglers' stopping point while they used approximately 100 secret routes to move around their contraband.
According to narrated story, gangs of wreckers operated on the coast of Cornwall during early 19th century. The wreckers ensnared ships to this coast line by tricking them with use of lights which they purposefully installed on the shores of the coast. Once the ships foundered on the rocky coast they were looted by the wreckers. While such endeavours have been depicted in many stories and legends, there is no clear evidence that this has ever happened.
By 1847, Francis Rodd of Trebartha Hall, who had been High Sheriff of Cornwall in 1845, was building a chapel at Bolventor to accommodate those who lived in the Jamaica Inn area. A 1856 guide book by Thomas Clifton Paris states that the same Francis Rodd had erected a church, parsonage, and school near the hitherto solitary halfway house to the satisfaction of the area's residents, and that the inn was frequented by sportsmen in the winter and afforded comfortable, though