James and the Giant Peach is a 1996 musical animated fantasy film directed by Henry Selick, based on the 1961 novel of the same name by Roald Dahl. It was produced by Tim Burton and Denise Di Novi, and starred Paul Terry as James. The film is a combination of live action and stop-motion animation. Joanna Lumley and Miriam Margolyes played James's self-absorbed Aunts Spiker and Sponge, respectively (in the live-action segments), with Simon Callow, Richard Dreyfuss, Jane Leeves, Susan Sarandon and David Thewlis, as well as Margolyes, voicing his insect friends in the animation sequences.
Released on April 12, 1996 in the United States, the film received generally positive reviews from critics, who praised its story and visual aspects. However, the film was a box-office failure, grossing $300K less than its budget.


== Plot ==
In the summer of 1948, English boy James Henry Trotter is a young orphan living with his sadistic and domineering aunts Spiker and Sponge after his parents were eaten alive by a rhinoceros. One day, after rescuing a spider from his hysterical aunts, James obtains magic "crocodile tongues" from a mysterious old man, which have the power to grow anything they come into contact with to colossal size. James, running home, trips and spills the bag onto the ground; the neon, wormlike “tongues” leap away and into the ground underneath an old peach tree, thus growing a massive fruit that Spiker and Sponge exploit as a tourist attraction. At night, James eats through the peach to find a pit with several human-sized anthropomorphic invertebrates: Mr. Grasshopper, Mr. Centipede, Ms. Spider (the spider he saved prior), Mr. Earthworm, Mrs. Ladybug, and Mrs. Glowworm. As they hear Spiker and Sponge searching for James, Centipede cuts the stem connecting the peach to the tree and the peach rolls away to the Atlantic Ocean.
The invertebrates fly the peach to New York City with a flock
of seagulls (each tied with a string to the peach stem), as James has dreamed of visiting the Empire State Building like his parents wanted to. Obstacles include a giant mechanical shark and undead skeletal pirates in the Arctic Ocean. When the group arrives, they are suddenly attacked by the tempestuous form of the rhinoceros that killed James' parents. James, though scared, gets everyone to safety and confronts the rhino before it strikes the peach with lightning. James and the peach fall to the city below, landing on the Empire State Building. After he is rescued by firefighters, Spiker and Sponge arrive and attempt to claim James and the peach. James tells the crowd of his amazing adventure and exposes his aunts' abuses. Enraged at James, Spiker and Sponge attempt to attack him with stolen fire axes, but the insects arrive to save him, as Ms. Spider subdues the two aunts by wrapping them up in her silk.
James introduces his friends to the crowd of onlookers, and allows the children to eat the peach. The peach pit is made into a cottage in Central Park, where James lives happily with the bugs, who form his new family and also find success and fame in the city; Mr. Centipede runs for New York mayor and is now James’ father, Miss Spider opens a club and is his mother, Mr. Earthworm becomes a mascot for a skin-care company (and either James' uncle or cousin), Mrs. Ladybug becomes an obstetrician and James' aunt, Mr. Grasshopper becomes a concert violinist (and James' grandfather), and Mrs. Glowworm becomes the light in the torch of the Statue of Liberty (and his grandmother). James celebrates his ninth birthday with his new family and friends.
A post-credits scene shows a kid playing an arcade game called Spike the Aunts, which involves the rhinoceros hitting the aunts in the rear.


== Cast ==
Paul Terry as James Henry Trotter
Miriam Margolyes as Aunt Sponge
Joanna Lumley as Aunt Spiker
Pete Postlethwaite as Narrator/the Magic Man
Steven Culp as James' Father
Susan Turner-Cray as James' Mother
Mike Starr as Beat Cop


=== Voices ===
Simon C