Jaws 3-D (titled Jaws III in its 2-D form) is a 1983 American horror film directed by Joe Alves and starring Dennis Quaid, Bess Armstrong, Simon MacCorkindale and Louis Gossett Jr. It is the second sequel to Steven Spielberg's Jaws and the third installment in the Jaws franchise. The film follows the Brody children from the previous films to SeaWorld, a Florida marine park with underwater tunnels and lagoons. As the park prepares for opening, a young great white shark infiltrates the park from the sea, seemingly attacking and killing the park's employees. Once the shark is captured, it becomes apparent that a second, much larger shark also entered the park and was the real culprit.
The film made use of 3D during the revived interest in the technology in the 1980s, amongst other horror films such as Friday the 13th Part III and Amityville 3-D. Cinema audiences could wear disposable cardboard polarized 3D glasses to create the illusion that elements penetrate the screen. Several shots and sequences were designed to utilize the effect, such as the shark's destruction. Since 3D was ineffective in home viewing until the advent of 3D televisions in the late 2000s, the alternative title Jaws III is used for television broadcasts and home media. Jaws 3-D amassed commercial success but received overwhelmingly negative reviews, and was followed by Jaws: The Revenge in 1987, which retroactively ignores this film.


== Plot ==
Michael "Mike" Brody, son of police chief Martin Brody of Amity Island, is working as chief engineer at SeaWorld Orlando alongside his girlfriend, Kathryn "Kay" Morgan, the park's senior biologist. Among the attractions are new underwater tunnels that allow for a view of the undersea life.  
While the park's lagoon gates are stuck open, a great white shark follows an unsuspecting team of water skiers into the park. Kay and her assistants notice that the resident dolphins, especially two individuals Cindy and Sandy, are afraid of leaving their pen and going out into the lagoon. Later, Calvin Bouchard, the park manager, welcomes his friend, adventurer and hunter Philip FitzRoyce, and Mike's younger brother Sean arrives for a visit having taken the summer off from college. That night, Shelby Overman, a mechanic, dives into the water to repair and secure the gates. He is attacked by the shark and killed, severing his right arm. Mike, Kay and Sean go out for drinks and Sean meets and begins dating Kelly Ann Bukowski, one of the park's water skiers. Meanwhile, two men sneak into the park and go underwater to steal coral they intend to sell, but both are killed by the shark in the process.
The next day, Kay and Mike are informed of Overman's disappearance. They go down in a submarine to look for his body, and during the search, they encounter a juvenile great white, only 10 ft (3.0 m) long. The dolphins rescue Kay and Mike, but the shark escapes back into the park. They inform Bouchard, and FitzRoyce suggests killing the shark on network television. Kay protests, instead recommending capturing the shark and keeping it alive in captivity, which would generate more publicity for the park. The shark is successfully captured, and Kay and her staff begin to nurse it to health. Calvin, desperate to start the money rolling in immediately, orders it moved to an exhibit, but the shark dies. Kelly cajoles Sean out onto the water in a bumper boat, despite his trepidation due to his experiences in Amity.
Overman's corpse is discovered and, reviewing the body, Kay realizes that the shark that killed him is the first shark's 35 ft (11 m) long mother and that it must also be inside the park. She is able to convince Calvin about this newest development when the shark herself shows up at the window of the underwater café. Flushed out from her refuge inside a filtration pipe, the shark begins to wreak havoc on the park, injuring Kelly, and causing a leak that nearly drowns everyone in the underwater tunnel. FitzRoyce and his assistant, Jack