Jefferson in Paris is a 1995 historical drama film, directed by James Ivory, and previously entitled Head and Heart. The screenplay, by Ruth Prawer Jhabvala, is a semi-fictional account of Thomas Jefferson's tenure as the Ambassador of the United States to France before his presidency and of his alleged relationships with Italian-English artist Maria Cosway and his slave, Sally Hemings.
The film was critically and commercially unsuccessful, grossing $5.9 million on a $14 million budget.


== Plot ==
Set in the period 1784–1789, the film portrays Jefferson when he was US minister to France at Versailles before the French Revolution. French liberals and intellectuals hope he will lead them away from the corruption of the court of King Louis XVI and Marie-Antoinette and toward a more democratic form of government. Although deploring the poverty of the common people, he embraces the riches of French culture and civilization. It is his first time abroad, and he takes advantage of the opportunity to extend his knowledge of liberal arts and science while absorbing the refinements France has to offer.
A lonely widower, Jefferson develops a close friendship with Maria Cosway, a beautiful (and married) Anglo-Italian painter and musician. Although she becomes increasingly devoted to him, he is attached to his memory of his late wife, to whom he promised that he would not remarry, and to his two younger daughters. His elder daughter is especially possessive, and Patsy becomes jealous of Maria's influence on her father. Maria becomes his confidant and correspondent, and their relationship soon becomes romantic, though it is complicated by Maria's marriage and Thomas's vow to his late wife never to remarry.
Later, Jefferson becomes attracted to Sally Hemings, his enslaved maid and companion of his younger daughter Polly. Three-quarters white in ancestry, she is his late wife's half-sister. Their father had taken Sally's slave mother as a concubine after he was widowed for the third time; Sally is the sixth of their children. Sally's enslaved brother James Hemings is also in Paris, training to be a French chef for Jefferson at Monticello. It is strongly implied that Jefferson begins a sexual relationship with Sally, which Patsy is aware of and disgusted by. She implies the truth to Maria, who witnesses the familiarity between Jefferson and Sally first-hand and, already having felt neglected by Jefferson, swiftly ends her relationship with him.
When George Washington offers Jefferson the post of Secretary of State, he accepts and prepares to sail home with his family. Sally reveals to James that she is pregnant by Jefferson, but James, having enjoyed his freedom in Paris, is unwilling to return to the United States and urges Sally to remain with him for the sake of her child. It is only when Jefferson promises, making an oath upon the Bible, that he will give James and Sally their freedom that they consent to return with him. Jefferson extends his oath to promise freedom to all of Sally's children as well upon his death, with Patsy bearing witness and swearing to carry out his promise.


== Cast ==


=== At Jefferson's house, the Hôtel de Langeac ===
Nick Nolte ..... Thomas Jefferson
Gwyneth Paltrow ..... Patsy Jefferson
Estelle Eonnet ..... Polly Jefferson
Thandiwe Newton ..... Sally Hemings (credited as Thandie Newton)
Seth Gilliam ..... James Hemings
Todd Boyce .... William Short
Nigel Whitmey .... John Trumbull
Nicolas Silberg .... Monsieur Petit
Catherine Samie .... Cook
Lionel Robert .... Cook's Helper


=== At Lafayette's ===
Greta Scacchi ..... Maria Cosway
Simon Callow ..... Richard Cosway
Lambert Wilson ..... Marquis de Lafayette
Elsa Zylberstein ..... Adrienne de Lafayette
William Moseley .... Georges Washington de Lafayette
Jean-Pierre Aumont ..... d'Hancarville
Anthony Valentine .... British Ambassador


=== At Versailles ===
Michael Lonsdale ..... Louis XVI
Charlotte de Turckheim ..... Marie-Antoinette
Damien Groëlle ..... The D