Jerry Maguire is a 1996 American sports comedy-drama film directed and written by Cameron Crowe. It was produced by Crowe and James L. Brooks for Gracie Films and distributed by TriStar Pictures. It stars Tom Cruise as the sports agent Jerry Maguire, alongside Cuba Gooding Jr., Renée Zellweger, Kelly Preston, Jerry O'Connell, Jay Mohr, Bonnie Hunt and Regina King. It was released in North American theaters on December 13, 1996.
Jerry Maguire was inspired by an experience the sports agent Leigh Steinberg, a technical consultant for the film, had with the client Tim McDonald during the 1993 NFL season when free agency was introduced. The film was also partly inspired by a 28-page memo written at Disney in 1991 by Jeffrey Katzenberg.
Jerry Maguire received positive reviews for its performances and screenplay. It grossed more than $273 million worldwide against its $50 million budget. It was the ninth-highest-grossing film of 1996. It was nominated for five Academy Awards, including Best Picture and Best Actor for Cruise, with Cuba Gooding Jr. winning Best Supporting Actor. It received nominations for three Golden Globes, with Cruise winning for Best Actor – Motion Picture Musical or Comedy, and three Screen Actors Guild Awards, with Gooding winning Best Supporting Actor.
Jerry Maguire gained a cult following and has spawned several catchphrases into popular culture, such as "Show me the money!" and "You had me at 'Hello'", "You complete me", and "Help me help you".


== Plot ==
Jerry Maguire is a slick 35-year-old sports agent working for Sports Management International (SMI). After criticism from an injured player's son triggers a life-altering epiphany, he writes a mission statement about perceived dishonesty in the sports management business and his desire to work with fewer clients to produce a better, more caring personal relationship with them.
In response, SMI management sends Bob Sugar, Jerry's protégé, to fire him. This spurs both men to each call all of Jerry's clients to try to convince them not to hire the services of the other. Jerry speaks to Arizona Cardinals wide receiver Rod Tidwell, one of his clients who is disgruntled with his contract. He needs a $10 million contract for his family to live on. Jerry informs him if he gets injured for the season, he will get no money from the Cardinals. Rod tests Jerry's resolve through a very long telephone conversation, during which Bob Sugar persuades the rest of Jerry's clients to stick with SMI.
Leaving the office, Jerry announces that he will start his own agency and asks if anyone will join him, to which only 26-year-old single mother Dorothy Boyd agrees. Frank "Cush" Cushman, a superstar quarterback prospect who expects to be the number one pick in the NFL Draft, initially also stays with Jerry after he makes a visit to the Cushman home. However, Sugar persuades Cushman and his father to sign with SMI over Jerry the night before the draft.
After an argument Jerry breaks up with his disgruntled fiancée Avery. He then turns to Dorothy, becoming closer to her young son, Ray, and starts a romantic relationship with her. Dorothy contemplates moving to San Diego as she has a secure job offer there; however, she and Jerry then decide to get married.
Jerry concentrates all his efforts on Rod, now his only client, who turns out to be very difficult to satisfy. Over the next several months, the two direct harsh criticism towards each other with Rod insisting that Jerry is not trying hard enough to get him a contract while Jerry contends that Rod is not proving himself worthy of the money for which he demands; one point of contention is that Rod is not very likable and comes across as aloof to the fans.
Rod takes Jerry's advice to prove he is worthy of his contract. He is playing well and his team is winning. Jerry's marriage with Dorothy deteriorates as she notices he seems crazier about Ray than her, so they separate.
During a December Monday Night Football game between the Car