Jumanji is a 1995 American fantasy comedy adventure film directed by Joe Johnston from a screenplay by Jonathan Hensleigh, Greg Taylor and Jim Strain, based on the 1981 children's picture book of the same name by Chris Van Allsburg. The film is the first installment in the Jumanji film series. It stars Robin Williams, Kirsten Dunst, David Alan Grier, Bonnie Hunt, Jonathan Hyde and Bebe Neuwirth. The story centers on a supernatural board game that releases jungle-based hazards on its players with every turn they take.
Jumanji was released on December 15, 1995, by Sony Pictures Releasing. The film received mixed reviews from critics, but was a box-office success, grossing $263 million worldwide on a budget of approximately $65 million. It was the tenth-highest-grossing film of 1995.
The film spawned an animated television series that aired from 1996 to 1999, and was followed by a spin-off film, Zathura: A Space Adventure (2005), and two indirect sequels, Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle (2017) and Jumanji: The Next Level (2019).


== Plot ==
In 1969, Alan Parrish lives in Brantford, New Hampshire, with his parents, Sam and Carol. One day, he escapes a group of bullies and retreats to Sam's shoe factory. His friend Carl Bentley reveals a new shoe prototype he made himself. Alan inadvertently damages the shoe after misplacing it on a conveyor belt, but Carl takes responsibility and is dismissed. After the bullies attack Alan and steal his bicycle, Alan follows the sound of tribal drumbeats to a construction site. He finds a century-old board game called Jumanji and brings it home.
After a disagreement with Sam about attending a local boarding school, Alan plans to run away, but his friend, Sarah Whittle, returns his bicycle. Alan shows her Jumanji and invites her to play. With each dice roll, the game piece moves by itself, and a cryptic message describing the roll's outcome appears in the crystal ball at the center of the board. After Alan inadvertently rolls a five, a message tells him to wait in a jungle until someone rolls a five or eight, and he is sucked into the game. Shortly after, a swarm of bats pursues Sarah out of the mansion.
Twenty-six years later, Judy and Peter Shepherd move into the now-vacant Parrish mansion with their aunt Nora after their parents died in an accident the previous winter on a ski trip in Canada. Judy and Peter begin playing Jumanji after discovering it in the attic. Their rolls summon giant mosquitoes and swarms of monkeys. The game rules state that everything will be restored when the game ends, so they continue playing. Peter rolls a five, releasing a lion and an adult Alan. While making his way out, Alan encounters Carl, now working as a police officer. At the abandoned shoe factory, Alan, Judy and Peter discover that Sam abandoned the shoemaking business to search for his son after his disappearance until his 1991 death. Eventually, the factory's closure sent Brantford into economic decline.
Realizing that they need Sarah to finish the game, the three locate Sarah, who is haunted by both Jumanji and Alan's disappearance, and persuade her to join them. Sarah's first move releases fast-growing carnivorous vines, and Alan's next move releases a big-game hunter named Van Pelt, who Alan first met in the game's inner world. The next roll summons a stampede of various animals, and a pelican steals the game. Peter retrieves it, but Carl arrests Alan. As the stampede wreaks havoc in town, Van Pelt steals the game.
Peter, Sarah and Judy travel to a nearby discount store and rig booby traps to subdue Van Pelt and retrieve the game, while Alan is released after revealing his identity to Carl. The four return to the mansion, which is now overrun by jungle wildlife. They release one calamity after another until Van Pelt arrives. Alan drops the dice and wins the game, which reverses everything that happened as a result of the game.
Alan and Sarah return to 1969 in time for Alan to reconcile with Sam, who tell