Jumpin' Jack Flash is a 1986 American spy comedy film starring Whoopi Goldberg. The film was directed by Penny Marshall in her theatrical film directorial debut. The soundtrack has two versions of the song "Jumpin' Jack Flash": the original by the Rolling Stones, and a remake by Aretha Franklin in the end credits. Franklin's version was not on the film's soundtrack album but was released as a single.


== Plot ==
In New York City, Terry Doolittle is an eccentric but talented computer operator working for First National Bank. Supportive of her colleagues and often willing to help, Terry regularly uses her computer to remotely communicate with and advise others around the world during her working day. One night, before she leaves the office, Terry is messaged by "Jumping Jack Flash," someone who claims to be a British Intelligence agent trapped in Eastern Europe and pursued by the KGB. Unable to make contact with his superiors, Jack asks Terry for help after she demonstrates her intelligence by cracking his encryption password based on their shared like of rock band The Rolling Stones. Jack requests that Terry deliver a coded message to Department C at the British consulate, but a staff member, Jeremy Talbot, claims no such department exists and cannot understand the message.
A computer technician later arrives at First National to inspect Terry's computer but when she calls security to check who sent him, the man disappears. Jack asks Terry to recover from his apartment a frying pan on which his agent contacts are concealed. While there, someone photographs Terry and posts it on Jack's door to intimidate her. Returning to her taxi, the technician takes her hostage but she hits him with the pan and jumps out of the vehicle. Terry calls one of Jack's hidden contacts, Mark Van Meter, and agrees to meet him by the East River. However, they are ambushed and although Mark throws Terry into the river, keeping her safe, he is shot dead. At his funeral, Terry meets another of Jack's contact, Archer Lincoln, and Liz Carlson, the wife of his other contact Harry, who is supposedly with Jack.
Terry messages Jack, who deduces Harry must have died after they were separated. Jack asks Terry to undertake a high-risk mission by breaking into the consulate and accessing the computer system during the Queen's anniversary ball. She infiltrates the event disguised as a singer and Liz helps distract Talbot while Terry connects a device to the computer so she can access it remotely. The following night, Terry remotely accesses the consulate computer to secure an exit route for Jack but Talbot disables the device before she finishes. Terry visits Liz's home for advice but finds it abandoned and Archer waiting for her. He confirms that Harry is dead and Liz and their children have been relocated and given new identities for protection. 
The following morning, Terry contacts Jack's ex-girlfriend Lady Sarah Billings, now wife of the consul general, for help. Though initially relucant to help and risk her social standing, she eventually provides Terry with a new exit route for Jack. Terry is later abducted by the technician and his accomplices on the city streets but incapacitates the technician and escapes. She transmits the new plan to Jack before being recaptured by Talbot and his men. She deduces that Talbot is a mole for the KGB and he wants Jack dead because he has learned the truth. The exit route was provided to Sarah by Talbot as a trusted consul advisor and it will lead Jack into a trap. Terry bluffs that she gave Jack a different exit route, preventing them from killing her immediately, and she successfully flees to the office to warn Jack. However, Talbot and his men assault the office, forcing Terry's co-workers to take cover, but her new colleague Marty shoots the men dead while Terry incapacitates Talbot. Marty reveals he is actually Peter Caen, one of Jack's contacts, and he supplies Jack with a safe exit route. Before losing contact with J