Joe (Joseph) Chester is an Irish composer and musician. His albums have won acclaim, from his debut solo record, A Murder of Crows, The Easter Vigil (which was named the "Best Irish Album" of 2017), and Jupiter's Wife, which was his sixth (the Best Irish album of 2020 according to the Irish Daily Mirror).
In recent years, he has turned his attention to composing contemporary music for classical guitar. His first major commission, LUCIA, commissioned by Axis Ballymun for the centenary of James Joyce's Ulysses, was inspired by fragments of the life of Lucia Joyce, James Joyce's daughter. According to The Irish Times, it was "deft and well-considered, the work spins and soars. An elegant, discordant gem." The Times called it "a stunning tribute."
He has been lead guitarist with many groups, including The Waterboys and Gemma Hayes, and is the producer and guitarist of Dublin band A Lazarus Soul.


== 1990 - 2000 ==
From 1990, he worked as an engineer and producer in Dublin’s Elektra and then Sun Studios, Joe Chester recorded many of the emerging bands of the vibrant and celebrated underground indie scene of the time, including Sack, Sunbear, The Plague Monkeys, Turn, Nina Hynes, Doctor Millar, Future Kings Of Spain, Ten Speed Racer, Bobby Pulls A Wilson in addition to many others.
Having played guitars and keyboards on several of these records, he joined Sunbear as keyboardist and guitarist in 1994. The band landed a record deal with Tom Zutaut's (the man who signed Guns N' Roses) The Enclave, a subsidiary of EMI Records, and went into the studio for several months to record their debut album. However, shortly after signing, both EMI and The Enclave were shut down, resulting in the recordings being shelved.
He then formed a band with Nina Hynes called Nina and The Dreamweavers. After a residency in Dublin’s Whelan’s venue, the band signed with Reverb Records, and after several months of recording what would become the first Nina Hynes record, Creation, went on to perform two tours in the United States. Many of the recordings from this time remain unreleased.
Around this time, he recorded some of the first demos for Gemma Hayes’s first record as well as records by Halite (Graham Hopkin's band), Juniper (featuring Damien Rice and members of Bell X1), Nick Kelly and Doctor Millar.
He signed a publishing deal with UK publisher Daylight Robbery in 1997 and went into Trevor Hutchinson’s Marguerite Studios in Dublin for several months to make his first solo record, Winter, under the name The Sound of Bells. Winter was never released, although four tracks—"Worldwept", "Spiritbuilding", "Dorian", and "Are You Paul Varjak?" were released as 7-inch singles by Daylight Robbery.
Around this time, under the guidance of Trevor Hutchinson, he began recording many Irish traditional artists, including Lunasa (with whom he went on tour, recording their shows from which he compiled their first album), Breda Smyth, The Barleyshakes, and Gerry O’Beirne amongst others.
While on tour in America, he joined Ten Speed Racer and, on returning to Ireland, went into Sun Studios in Dublin to begin recordings for Eskimo Beach Boy, their first album.


== Ten Speed Racer ==
In 2000, Ten Speed Racer released their first album, Eskimo Beach Boy, on Reverb Records in Ireland and on Catapult Records in the USA. The album was recorded and mixed by Chester at Sun Studios, Dublin, who also played guitars, keyboards, and sang backing vocals. The album garnered rave reviews, with Hot Press Magazine saying “the playing throughout is both subtle and superb, and the production is also first-class.” However, the band parted ways with Reverb Records and signed to UK Indie label Red Flag Records for the follow-up.
Recordings for that follow-up began once more at Sun Studios in Dublin, with Chester once more producing (several tracks from these sessions remain unreleased.) The band decided to quit Dublin and moved en masse to a large farmhouse in rural Wexford where they set up 