The Karate Kid Part III is a 1989 American martial arts drama film, the third entry in the Karate Kid franchise and a sequel to The Karate Kid Part II (1986). It stars Ralph Macchio, Pat Morita, Robyn Lively, and Thomas Ian Griffith in his film debut. As was the case with the first two films in the series, it was directed by John G. Avildsen and written by Robert Mark Kamen, with stunts choreographed by Pat E. Johnson and music composed by Bill Conti. In the film, the returning John Kreese, with the help of his best friend Terry Silver, attempts to gain revenge on Daniel and Mr. Miyagi which involves hiring a ruthless martial artist and harming their relationship.
Though moderately successful at the box office, The Karate Kid Part III received generally negative reviews, with criticism aimed at its rehashing of elements found in its two predecessors, though Griffith's performance as Silver received praise from some critics. It was followed by The Next Karate Kid in 1994.


== Plot ==
Following the events of The Karate Kid Parts 1 and 2, John Kreese is broke and destitute. He visits Terry Silver, a fellow Green Beret who has become a toxic chemical magnate. Silver vows to personally help him re-establish Cobra Kai, while getting revenge on Daniel LaRusso and Mr. Miyagi. After sending Kreese to Tahiti for a vacation, Silver hires national karate champion Mike Barnes — known for his vicious personality and utter lack of sportsmanship — to challenge Daniel at the next All-Valley Tournament.
Returning to Los Angeles from Okinawa, Daniel and Miyagi discover that the South Seas apartment complex has been sold and demolished; this leaves Miyagi unemployed and Daniel homeless. With Daniel's mother Lucille nursing an ill uncle back in New Jersey, Daniel moves in with Miyagi. Daniel also uses his college funds to finance a bonsai shop for Miyagi, who gratefully makes him a partner in the business. Visiting a pottery store across the street, Daniel befriends the sole employee: Jessica Andrews, whose aunt owns the store. Jessica agrees to a date that same night, during which Daniel learns that she is visiting from Columbus, Ohio, where she already has a boyfriend. She and Daniel remain cordial.
While Miyagi introduces Daniel to kata training, Silver introduces himself to them, mentioning that he and Kreese were stationed together in South Korea during the Vietnam War. Silver announces that Kreese has passed away and apologizes on his behalf. 
Accompanied by Silver's goons Dennis and Snake, Barnes repeatedly harasses Daniel and Jessica. They wreck Miyagi's shop, and steal his entire stock of bonsai trees. Daniel decides to dig up and sell a valuable bonsai, which Miyagi brought from Okinawa, in order to replace the missing trees. Barnes and his two henchmen appear. They force Daniel to sign up for the tournament, by trapping him and Jessica at the bottom of a cliff. Daniel accepts Silver's offer to train him for the All-Valley, after Miyagi refuses to do so on principle.
At the Cobra Kai dojo, Daniel is subjected to a brutal training regimen which takes a massive physical and emotional toll on him, while further alienating him from Miyagi. This culminates in a now-aggressive Daniel attacking a stranger, who was bribed by Silver to provoke him. Disturbed by his own actions, Daniel makes amends with Jessica as she prepares to go home. She encourages him to patch things up with Miyagi, which he does.
Returning to the Cobra Kai dojo, Daniel informs Silver that he's changed his mind about competing in the All-Valley. Silver discards his ruse and brings out Barnes to attack Daniel, whose escape is blocked by Kreese. Miyagi arrives; he effortlessly defeats Barnes, Kreese, and Silver, then agrees to train Daniel for the All-Valley Tournament. 
On the day of the tournament, Silver reveals his plan to re-establish Cobra Kai as a business franchise. In the finals, Silver has Barnes torture Daniel by alternately scoring points and spending them via ill