The Karate Kid is a 2010 martial arts drama film directed by Harald Zwart and produced by Jerry Weintraub, Will Smith, Jada Pinkett Smith, James Lassiter, and Ken Stovitz, from a screenplay written by Christopher Murphey, based on a story conceived by Robert Mark Kamen, the writer of the first three Karate Kid films. It serves as the fifth film in The Karate Kid franchise, and stars Jaden Smith and Jackie Chan in the lead roles, with Taraji P. Henson, Wenwen Han, Zhenwei Wang, Luke Carberry, Zhensu Wu, Zhiheng Wang, and Yu Rongguang in supporting roles. While serving as a remake and following a similar narrative as the original The Karate Kid film from 1984, with the setting moved to China, and the martial art changed (despite the film's title) from karate to kung fu, the film is set in the same fictional universe as the previous films, retroactively serving as a standalone sequel to The Next Karate Kid (1994).
The story follows 12-year-old Dre Parker (Smith) from Detroit, Michigan, who moves to Beijing, China with his widowed mother Sherry (Henson) and runs afoul of the neighborhood bully Cheng (Zhenwei Wang). He makes an unlikely ally in the form of an ageing maintenance man, Mr. Han (Chan), a kung fu master who teaches him the secrets of self-defence.
Principal photography of the film, which is an international co-production between China, Hong Kong and the United States, took place in Beijing, China, and filming began in July 2009 and ended on October 16. James Horner composed and conducted the film's score.
Produced by Columbia Pictures in association with Overbrook Entertainment, JW Productions, and China Film Group, The Karate Kid was released theatrically worldwide on June 11, 2010, by Sony Pictures Releasing. The film earned $359 million on a $40 million budget. A sequel is in development for a 2025 release, with Chan reprising his role, alongside Ralph Macchio from the first three films and the television series Cobra Kai.


== Plot ==
12-year-old Dre Parker and his widowed mother Sherry move from Detroit to Beijing after she gets a job transfer at a car factory. There, Dre meets Meiying, a young violinist who reciprocates his attention. However, 15-year-old Cheng, a rebellious kung fu prodigy whose family is close to Meiying's, keeps them apart by constantly attacking, teasing, and bullying Dre. As revenge, Dre throws a bucket of dirty water over Cheng and his gang after a school field trip to the Forbidden City. Enraged, they chase, corner, and brutally beat Dre at an alley. Mr. Han, a maintenance man whom Dre knew previously after doing repairs in his apartment, intervenes and fends off the boys, revealing himself to be a kung fu master.
Mr. Han heals Dre's injuries using the ancient Chinese medicine methods of fire cupping. He explains that Cheng and his friends are not inherently bad, but are taught mercilessness to their enemies by their teacher, Master Li. Intrigued, Dre asks if Han could teach him kung fu. At first, Mr. Han refuses, but eventually accompanies him to Li's Fighting Dragons studio to make peace. Li harshly rebuffs the peace offer and challenges Dre to a fight with Cheng. Mr. Han instead counters that Dre competes against all of Li's students at an upcoming kung fu tournament. He requests that his students leave Dre alone to train until then. Li begrudgingly accepts as long as Dre shows up at the tournament.
Mr. Han begins to teach Dre kung fu by emphasizing movements that apply to life in general. He conveys that serenity and maturity, not punches and power, are the keys to mastering kung fu. Han makes Dre repeatedly take off and pick up his jacket. Through this, Dre develops muscle memory. Mr. Han takes him to a Taoist temple in the Wudang Mountains. There, Dre witnesses a woman making a cobra reflect her movements and later drinks the water from a Taoist well. After many weeks of training, Mr. Han gives Dre a day off. Dre goes to see Meiying, persuading her to cut school for a day of fun. This