Kids in the Hall: Brain Candy is a 1996 Canadian comedy film written by and starring the Canadian comedy troupe The Kids in the Hall. Directed by Kelly Makin and filmed in Toronto, it followed the five-season run of their television series The Kids in the Hall, which had been successful in both Canada and the United States.


== Premise and characters ==
The five-man team plays all of the major characters and many of the bit parts. The film was written by four of the five members of the troupe, along with Norm Hiscock; the troupe's fifth member, Dave Foley, had quit the troupe and was already working as a cast member on NewsRadio, but was contractually obligated to be in the film. Foley also plays fewer characters in the film than do the other four members. Brendan Fraser and Janeane Garofalo have cameos in the film, Garofalo's being almost entirely absent from the final cut.
The film is about the introduction of a powerful antidepressant, Gleemonex. The drug is rushed into production to help the ailing Roritor Pharmaceuticals and becomes an overnight media sensation. Those involved in the early stages of Gleemonex – the scientists, marketing arm and several early users – are followed, right up through the troubling coma-like side effect of being stuck in their happiest memory.

Marv (Dave Foley) is Roritor's assistant. Despite their seemingly close relationship, he actually dislikes Roritor to the point that his happiest memory is urinating into his boss's latte (Roritor's happiest moment, ironically, is drinking the concoction).
Alice (Bruce McCulloch) is a fellow scientist and apparent love interest of Chris. She eventually watches from a distance as he slips away into celebrity.
Grivo (Bruce McCulloch) is a rock star famous for his bleak and pessimistic rock as well as a general indifference toward his audience, fame, and music. After taking the drug, Grivo switches to jangly, upbeat pop music; his new song "Happiness Pie" becomes an anthem for the post-Gleemonex world and wins a "World Music Video Award" for it (much to the disappointment of the former fans of his moody angst music). McCulloch loosely based Grivo's image off heavy metal singer Glenn Danzig.
Chris Cooper (Kevin McDonald, Jason Barr, younger) is the inventor of the drug and main protagonist of the film. He is motivated by the clumsy suicide of his father (also played by McDonald) to create a cure for clinical depression but quickly gets swept up in the resulting fame.
Don Roritor (Mark McKinney) heads Roritor Pharmaceuticals, founded on his invention of the drug Stummies (likely a play on Tums or Rolaids). He has a close but contentious relationship with his spineless assistant, Marv. (Roritor's speaking style is openly derived from McKinney's impersonation of producer Lorne Michaels.)
Mrs. Hurdicure (Scott Thompson) is an old woman who initially is severely depressed and an early test subject for Gleemonex (referred to as "Patient 957"). Her happiest memory is shown to be a brief and obligatory Christmas visit from her son, played by Dave Foley. The drug quickly whips her out of the depression, but she inevitably becomes the first victim of its side effect. She is also the test subject for its antidote, a depressant.
Wally Terzinsky (Scott Thompson) is a husband, father, and closeted homosexual. Wally masturbates to gay pornography, frequents public bath houses, and was sexually active with men during his military service – but remains unaware of his sexual orientation. He is prescribed Gleemonex by a frustrated therapist, (Dave Foley) ("You're gay. I know it, your family knows it... dogs know it!"). His happiest memory is a homoerotic Army mission fantasized by Wally while being chewed out by his drill instructor (Mark McKinney). Wally finds himself standing considerably closer to his drill instructor when through fantasizing. Shortly after this, he finally admits (via song and dance) that he is in fact, homosexual.
Some characters from the television ser