The Killing Of A Sacred Deer is a 2017 absurdist psychological horror thriller film directed and co-produced by Yorgos Lanthimos, who also co-wrote the screenplay with Efthimis Filippou. It stars Colin Farrell, Nicole Kidman, Barry Keoghan, Raffey Cassidy, Sunny Suljic, Alicia Silverstone, and Bill Camp. It follows a cardiac surgeon who introduces his family to a teenage boy with a connection to his past, after which they mysteriously begin to fall ill.
The film had its world premiere at the 70th Cannes Film Festival on 22 May 2017, where it was awarded Best Screenplay. It was theatrically released in the United Kingdom and Ireland on 3 November 2017, by Curzon Artificial Eye. It grossed $10.7 million worldwide and received positive reviews from critics, who praised Lanthimos' direction, the screenplay, cinematography, and performances of the cast (particularly those of Keoghan, Farrell, and Kidman). At the 15th Irish Film & Television Awards, the film earned four nominations, with Keoghan winning Best Supporting Actor. It was nominated for Best Director, Best Screenwriter, and Best Actor (for Farrell) at the 30th European Film Awards, and for Best Supporting Male (for Keoghan) and Best Cinematography at the 33rd Independent Spirit Awards.


== Plot ==
After performing an open heart surgery, Steven Murphy, a cardiothoracic surgeon in Cincinnati, meets 16-year-old Martin Lang, whose father died a few years earlier, in a diner. Steven goes home to his wife Anna and their children Kim and Bob. Steven invites Martin to meet his family, and Martin gets along with everyone, especially Kim. That night, Martin invites Steven to his house for dinner the next day.
At Martin's house, after dinner, Martin goes to bed, leaving Steven alone with his mother. Martin's mother begins flirting with Steven, and he leaves.
Martin visits Steven's office, complaining of chest pain, but tests show nothing wrong. Martin invites Steven over again, saying his mother finds Steven attractive, but Steven refuses. Afterward, Martin's demands for Steven's attention grow increasingly frequent and desperate, and Steven stops responding. He is troubled to learn that Martin gave Kim a ride home.
One morning, Bob is unable to move his legs, so Steven and Anna rush him to the hospital. Martin tells Steven that, to "balance things" for his father, who died while Steven was operating on him, Steven must kill a member of his own family. Otherwise, within a few days, Steven's family will all die. Steven has Martin escorted from the hospital. Later, Bob refuses to eat and Steven forces food into his son's mouth.
Bob's condition worsens, but no cause can be found. Kim, who has fallen in love with Martin, collapses while singing in the choir and is also hospitalized. She chokes on a piece of apple and is unable to eat too. Thus Kim and Bob are given feeding tubes. Steven tells Anna of his history with Martin. He also admits to drinking before operating on Martin's father. Martin calls Anna and over the phone tells Kim to stand up, which she does. When he hangs up, she collapses again. Anna confronts Martin about forcing her children to suffer for Steven's mistake. Martin replies it is justice to him since he believes Steven killed his father.
Eventually, Kim and Bob are sent home. After Anna chastizes Steven for his passive way of dealing with the situation, Steven kidnaps Martin and ties him up in his basement. He beats Martin and shoots him in the leg, but Martin is not intimidated. Martin bites Steven's arm as well as his own arm. The children argue over whom their father will kill and try to curry his favor. Steven asks the school principal which of his children is "best". (The principal tells Steven that Bob excels in maths and sciences. Kim strives in literature and history, citing her excellent essay on Iphigenia.) But at the end he says it is impossible to point out the best.
Back home, Anna tends to Martin's wounds and brings the children to see him but fails to