Killer: A Journal of Murder (1995) is an American drama film written and directed by Tim Metcalfe. It is loosely adapted from a book of the same title, on the life of American serial killer Carl Panzram, who was active in the early 20th century and executed in 1930. It uses some passages drawn from his own writings near the end of his life.
The film explores the relationship between Panzram (James Woods) and Henry Lesser (Robert Sean Leonard), a prison guard who believes in redemption. 
It premiered internationally in September 1995 at the Tokyo International Film Festival. The film was theatrically shown in the United States in 1996 through Legacy Releasing Corporation, although with limited distribution. In 1997 it was distributed by First Independent Films in the UK; in Spain, it was shown through Ufilms. In the United States, the film grossed $31,993 on its opening weekend across 9 screens. Total gross in America totaled $65,682.


== Plot ==
After repeated convictions and prison sentences for robberies and violent crimes in the early 20th century, Carl Panzram (James Woods) is serving time again at Leavenworth penitentiary for burglary. Prison guard Henry Lesser (Robert Sean Leonard), at the beginning of his career, extends kindness to him arising from his belief in reform. They develop some kind of relationship and Panzram asks Lesser for writing materials. He writes his life story, confessing to numerous murders and violent physical attacks against men and boys, accusing the circumstances of his life for his own cruelties to others.
He is encouraged by a warden who believes in rehabilitation and whom Panzram appears to like. However, his actions destroy the rehabilitation program. While granted a furlough, Panzram rapes a woman and is incarcerated again.
After recounting his life of homicide and crime, and refusing to apologize for any of it, Panzram beats a prison guard to death in an altercation. He is convicted and sentenced to death. Lesser tries to convince the condemned man to appeal by claiming insanity, but Panzram stubbornly refuses. In one scene he says, "I want out of this body, I want out of this life!"
Panzram is hanged at Leavenworth in 1930. In his last hours he refuses to appeal for clemency, and rejects a priest who comes to hear his confession. He urges the executioner to speed his preparations for the execution, saying "Hurry up, you Hoosier bastard. I could kill ten men while you're fooling around here."
Although horrified and disgusted by Panzram's crimes, Lesser is troubled by Panzram's death. Throughout the movie, Lesser's relationship with his wife Esther (Cara Buono) is briefly touched upon. He confides to her his experiences with dealing with Panzram's violent and nihilistic outlook on life. She has difficulty understanding the people her husband must deal with in his line of work.


== Cast ==
James Woods - Carl Panzram
Robert Sean Leonard - Henry Lesser
Ellen Greene - Elizabeth Wyatt
Cara Buono - Esther Lesser, Henry's wife
Robert John Burke - R.G. Greiser
Richard Riehle - Warden Quince
Harold Gould - Old Henry Lesser
John Bedford Lloyd - Dr. Karl Menninger
Jeffrey DeMunn - Sam Lesser, Henry's younger brother
Conrad McLaren - Judge John W. Kingman
Steve Forrest - Warden Charles Casey
Richard Council - Cop
Christopher Petrosino - Richard Lesser
Michael Jeffrey Woods - Harry Sinclair
Rob Locke Jones - Junkie
Raynor Scheine - Trusty
Eddie Cairis - Young Carl Panzram
Seth Romatelli - Teenaged Carl Panzram
Lili Taylor - Woman in Speakeasy


== Production ==
Screenwriter Tim Metcalfe found a copy of the book Killer: A Journal of Murder (1970) by Thomas Gaddis and Joe Long, in a used-book store. It dealt most directly with Panzram's unpublished memoir about his life and his insistence on having no regret for his numerous crimes. After reading it, Metcalfe spent five years attempting to get the story onto the screen, writing his own screenplay. Metcalfe dedicated his debut film to Sam Peckinpah becau