Kiss the Girls is a 1997 American neo-noir psychological thriller film directed by Gary Fleder and starring Morgan Freeman, Ashley Judd, and Cary Elwes. The screenplay by David Klass is based on James Patterson's best-selling 1995 novel of the same name. A sequel titled Along Came a Spider was released in 2001.


== Plot ==

Alex Cross is a well known detective and forensic psychologist based in Washington, D.C. Alex learns that his niece, Naomi, who lives in Durham, has not been found for four days now. Alex tries to calm his family. However, deep inside, he is worried about something bad that might have happened. He decides to go to Durham and see for himself whether he can find anything about Naomi. His cousin Sampson tells him that the place is out of his jurisdiction. But Alex is adamant about going to Durham and finding Naomi.
When Alex arrives in Durham, he waits for more than two hours to meet with the officers involved in the case. Subsequently, he finds out that there are at least ten girls who are on the missing persons’ list. It shocks Alex to think the police are unable to find anything about the abductor yet. He meets with the investigating officers, Detective Nick Ruskin and Detective Sikes. Together, they go to a place in the woods where the third body of a woman is found.
Alex sees that the woman is tied up against a tree with her hands behind her, and a part of her hair is cut down. The crime scene is way more brutal than Alex has imagined, which makes him more concerned about his niece. He meets with Chief Hatfield, who smoothly makes him aware that this is his jurisdiction and that he will not approve of any mess created by Alex. However, he is sympathetic toward Alex’s situation, knowing his niece can also be on the victim’s list, so he extends all the possible help, even including him in the case.
Dr. Kate McTiernan is a reputed doctor and an enthusiastic boxer. She lives alone, and she has an undying urge to fight back. Unbeknownst to her, she has just checked all the boxes for the serial abductor. One night, when Kate is asleep, the abductor gets inside her house, and with a bit of struggle, he kidnaps her. When she wakes up, she finds out that she is in a room that has stone walls. It looked like a cave or something, and she also felt that some heavy dosage was used to stabilize her.
Later, she sees a person in a mask who explains to her why he captured her. He is deeply in love with her since she is a very talented woman. He introduces himself as Casanova and tells her that if she listens to him, he will make sure that she doesn’t have to struggle a lot to live there. But Kate has different plans, as she is a fighter. She shouts to reach out if anyone is there with her and finds out that there are more women; each of them shares their name with her.
One day, when Casanova comes inside the room, Kate attacks him all of a sudden and runs to get out of this cave-like structure. She follows the light and finds herself in a jungle. She runs hard and falls over a couple of times, but she doesn’t stop on top of a cliff. Under that cliff flows a river, and behind her stands Casanova, her doom. She decides to jump off the cliff and ends up in a hospital.
Alex finds out, with the help of the PDR, that Kate was given a drug called Sistol. Luckily, the doctors were able to get the drug out of her system. When she feels okay, she helps with the investigation. Knowing Alex’s niece’s name, Kate tells him that she has talked to her and that she is willing to help him find Naomi. Alex goes to the internet and searches for the buyers of the drug called Sistol from the last five years. He finds out a plastic surgeon named Will Rudolph ordered a lot of Sistol two years ago. But the intriguing part is that using a Sistol for plastic surgery is forbidden.
So he ordered it under the terms of curing leukemia. But, in a small place, ordering such a huge amount of Sistol makes Alex doubt Rudolph more. He is almost sure that th