Kramer vs. Kramer is a 1979 American legal drama written and directed by Robert Benton, based on Avery Corman's 1977 novel of the same name. The film stars Dustin Hoffman, Meryl Streep, Justin Henry and Jane Alexander. It tells the story of a couple's divorce, its impact on their young son, and the subsequent evolution of their relationship and views on parenting.
Kramer vs. Kramer explores the psychology and fallout of divorce, and touches on prevailing or emerging social issues, such as gender roles, fathers' rights, work-life balance, and single parents.
Kramer vs. Kramer was theatrically released December 19, 1979, by Columbia Pictures. The film emerged as a major  commercial success at the box office, grossing more than $173 million on an $8 million budget, becoming the highest-grossing film of 1979 in the United States and Canada. It received widespread critical acclaim upon release, with high praise for its direction, story, screenplay and performances of the cast, with major praise directed towards Hoffman and Streep's performances.
Kramer vs. Kramer received a leading 9 nominations at the 52nd Academy Awards, including Best Supporting Actor (for Henry) and Best Supporting Actress (for Alexander), and won a leading 5 awards – Best Picture, Best Director (for Benton), Best Actor (for Hoffman), Best Supporting Actress (for Streep) and Best Adapted Screenplay. At the 37th Golden Globe Awards, the film received a leading 8 nominations, including Best Director (for Benton), Best Supporting Actor – Motion Picture (for Henry) and Best Supporting Actress – Motion Picture (for Alexander), and won a leading 4 awards, including Best Motion Picture – Drama, Best Actor in a Motion Picture – Drama (for Hoffman) and Best Supporting Actress – Motion Picture (for Streep). It also received 6 nominations at the 34th British Academy Film Awards, including Best Film, Best Direction (for Benton), Best Actor in a Leading Role (for Hoffman) and Best Actress in a Leading Role (for Streep), but failed to win any.


== Plot ==
Ted Kramer, a workaholic advertising executive in New York City, has just landed an important account and job promotion. However, when he shares the news with Joanna, his wife of eight years, she shocks him by announcing she is leaving him. She walks out of the apartment without Billy, the couple's seven-year-old son, because she feels she is unfit to be his mother. The next morning when Billy asks about Joanna, Ted explains that she went away to be alone for a while.
Ted drops Billy at his elementary school by asking him what grade he attends and leaving him with a woman at the entrance, before rushing to work. At the ad agency, Ted confides about the situation to Jim O'Connor, his boss and friend. Jim is understanding, but hopes that Ted's situation will not interfere with his new responsibility as the lead person on the Mid-Atlantic Airlines account.
Initially, Ted and Billy struggle to adapt to their new living situation as Billy misses Joanna and Ted has to do the extra housework usually done by Joanna. Ted and Billy gradually settle into a routine without Joanna, but Ted's work suffers. Billy and Ted have a fight one evening in which Billy cries for Joanna, but they later reconcile. When Billy worries Joanna's departure is his fault, Ted assures him that Joanna left because she was not happy in the marriage.
Meanwhile, Ted has become good friends with divorced neighbor Margaret Phelps, whom Joanna was confidantes with. One day, Billy has an accident when he falls off a jungle gym. Ted rushes him to the hospital, and asks the doctor to let him stay by Billy's side as he receives ten stitches.
After fifteen months, Ted receives a call from Joanna and meets her at a restaurant. Joanna reveals she is happier after working in California and seeing a therapist. When she states that she is now ready to raise Billy and wants Billy to come live with her in California, Ted becomes furious and leaves. He consults with divorce a