The Lady Eve is a 1941 American screwball comedy film written and directed by Preston Sturges and starring Barbara Stanwyck and Henry Fonda. The film is based on a story by Monckton Hoffe about a mismatched couple who meet on board an ocean liner. In 1994, The Lady Eve, which is included on many all-time "Top 100" lists, was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant".


== Plot ==

Jean Harrington is a beautiful con artist. Along with her equally larcenous father, "Colonel" Harrington, and his partner Gerald, she is sailing on an ocean liner with the intention to fleece rich, naive Charles Pike, the heir to the Pike's Pale ("The Ale That Won for Yale") fortune. Charles is a woman-shy snake expert just returning from a year-long expedition up the Amazon. The young women aboard the ship compete for his attention, but Charles is more concerned with reading about snakes.
Jean meets Charles by tripping him as he passes, and he is soon smitten with her. After Jean runs off, terrified by a real snake that Charles brought on board and has gotten loose in his cabin, the two share a steamy scene in her cabin.
Charles' minder Muggsy suspects that Jean is a trickster looking to steal from Charles, but Charles refuses to believe him. Then, despite the planned con, Jean falls in love with Charles and shields him from her card sharp father. Muggsy discovers the truth and presents proof to Charlie, who dumps Jean.
Furious at being scorned, Jean soon re-enters Charles' life masquerading as the posh Lady Eve Sidwich, niece of Sir Alfred McGlennan Keith, another con man who has been swindling the rich of Connecticut. Jean takes on an English accent, determined to torment Charles mercilessly; as she puts it, "I've got some unfinished business with him — I need him like the axe needs the turkey."
When Charles meets "Lady Eve", he is so bewildered at her resemblance to Jean that he constantly trips and falls over himself. Although Muggsy tries to convince him that "she's the same dame", Charles reasons that Jean would not come close to his home without at least disguising herself more thoroughly. Then, after Sir Alfred feeds him a story that the Lady Eve is Jean's long-lost sister, Charles accepts the resemblance. After a brief courtship, they marry, right on Jean's schedule. And just as she had planned, on the train to their honeymoon, "Eve" begins to confess her past, continuously dropping names of many old boyfriends and lovers. A disgusted Charles jumps off the train.
Jean's con team urges her to close the deal by pursuing a huge divorce settlement, but she tells Charles' father on the phone that she wants no money, but only wants Charles to tell her that their marriage is over in person. Charles refuses. Jean is then told by Charles' father that Charles is departing on another ocean voyage. She arranges passage for herself and her father, and meets Charles again by tripping him as he passes, just as they had met before. Charles is overjoyed to see Jean again. He kisses her and takes her hand, and they run to her cabin, where they mutually affirm their love for each other. As the cabin door closes, Charles confesses that he is married. Jean replies, "So am I, darling."


== Cast ==


== Production ==

The Lady Eve is loosely based on a 19-page story by Monckton Hoffe called "Two Bad Hats", which was also the working title of the film. Sturges was assigned in 1938 to write a script based on Hoffe's story, with Claudette Colbert expected to be the star. Sturges and Paramount producer Albert Lewin had some written disagreement in 1939 about the development of the script. Lewin wrote to Sturges, "[T]he first two-thirds of the script, in spite of the high quality of your jokes, will require an almost one hundred percent rewrite." Sturges objected, and eventually Lewin acceded, writing, "Follow your witty nose, my boy; it will lead 