Lamerica is a 1994 Italian drama film directed by Gianni Amelio.  It entered the competition at the 51st Venice International Film Festival, in which Amelio won the Golden Osella for Best Director. The film was selected as the Italian entry for the Best Foreign Language Film at the 67th Academy Awards, but was not accepted as a nominee.


== Plot ==
The story of two men caught up in the startup of a scam shoe company in Albania. The main characters Gino and Spiro (later discovered to be Michele), go on an adventure of misfortune. Gino is a young man originally from Sicily who is involved in a company that is trying to “give every Albanian good shoes,” but it truly is a scam.  Mr. Fiore (Gino’s boss) and Gino were unsatisfied with the officials that were originally set up to run the company. With the help of an Albanian middleman, they decided to find their own candidate who would be a “man of straw”, meaning he would do what they say.  Spiro, or Michele, was the old man that the company hired to be their Albanian figurehead “chairman” of the company. We later learn that Spiro was a Sicilian named Michele and the problems ensued.
This film compares and contrasts the old Italian man and the young Italian man and their seemingly varying identities as two men. The major contrast between the two is not the country in which they are from, but the time period in which they lived. Spiro is from the “old” Italy, where fascism and a hard life was all he knew, and Gino is from the “new” boom years where the emphasis is on money and materialistic items. This difference is substantially indicated throughout the film. This adventure unravels Spiro's tragic personal history and allows Gino to become intimately acquainted with the full extent of Albanian poverty. This Albanian poverty is a mirror of how Italy used to be during Spiro's time. Gino's car tires are stolen, while the fancy shoes he gave Spiro are also stolen by children. Gino and Spiro follow a group of Albanians who are headed for Italy in search for a better life, first by truck and later by ship. The Albanian exodus parallels that of Italians for the United States, which is where Spiro believes that they are heading.


== The Question of Italian Identity in Lamerica ==


=== Example Scene 1 ===
One of the first questions Gino and Fiore ask Spiro is “how old are you?” The old man holds up 10 fingers twice, communicating that he is 20 years old. In this scene, we see the old man struggling with his identity. He doesn’t know his own age, which is alarming for the viewer. Because Spiro thinks he hasn’t changed and is still 20 years old, we see he is fixed in an older generation. We will eventually learn in the film that Spiro represents the “old” Italy.  In the scene where Gino is in the hospital with Spiro, the nurse says something about his papers which prompts Gino to say the words “Maybe he was Italian before, but he’s Albanian now.” Even though Gino says this about Spiro’s papers, what he truly means is that there is nothing Gino can see in him that identifies him as Italian in his eyes. Gino only knows the “new” Italy, filled with materialistic wants and its society’s representation of status. Spiro embodies the “old” Italy, which Gino is completely unfamiliar with. Spiro is still stuck in this past “old” Italy. Gino determined that Spiro has lost his identity as an Italian, because Italians have changed with the times and Spiro has not.


=== Example Scene 2 ===
In the scene in the Albanian countryside, Gino experiences one of the first signs he might be losing his Italian identity when enters a store and emerges to find someone has taken the tires off of his car. The Albanians were always interested in this materialistic item. As the embodiment of the “new” consumer-driven Italy, he is used to everyone having cars and is surprised when the poor Albanians vandalized his property. Gino complains and threatens the people around him, but no one understands him because they do n