"Larger than Life" is a song by American boy band Backstreet Boys from their third studio album, Millennium. It was released on September 7, 1999, as the second single from the album. It was written by band member Brian Littrell with Max Martin and Kristian Lundin, who also produced the song along with Rami Yacoub. The song is a "thank you" for their fans' encouragement and devotion. Music critics praised its memorable melody, singalong lyrics, and the band's vocal performance. It was also on Blender's list of the 500 Greatest Songs Since You Were Born.
Commercially, the song became a top-10 hit in over 14 countries. The song became the band's eighth consecutive top-five single in the United Kingdom, peaking at number five in October 1999. The music video, directed by Joseph Kahn, holds a Guinness World Record for the 14th most expensive music video with estimated production costs of over $2,100,000 USD. It also broke the record for longest-running number one on MTV's Total Request Live.


== Background ==
"Larger than Life" was written and composed sometime in 1998 by group member Brian Littrell. When the group traveled to Sweden in early November 1998 to record at Cheiron Studios, alterations and additions were later made to the lyrics by the producers Max Martin and Kristian Lundin. "Larger than Life" was initially registered and copyrighted in December 1998 as an unfinished demo, not being released on Millennium preview snippets.
Before February 1999, to traditionally follow up the template of releasing upbeat numbers as lead singles (i.e., "We've Got It Goin' On," "Everybody"), "Larger than Life" was intended as the first single from the upcoming album. However, the decision changed upon hearing the completed version of "I Want It That Way" in a meeting with Max Martin and Andreas Carlsson in February 1999. Thus, plans were canceled, and "Larger than Life" was later released as the second single.


== Composition and lyrics ==
"Larger than Life" was written by band member Brian Littrell, with additional lyrics by Max Martin and Kristian Lundin. Lundin also produced the song, while Martin and Rami Yacoub produced its "Video Mix" version. The song opens with a boisterous talkbox and AJ McLean’s maniacal "yeah," setting an exhilarated tone. Brian Littrell and Nick Carter start singing, "I may run and hide/When you're screamin’ my name alright/But let me tell ya now there are prices to fame alright."  In the chorus, they sing about how having legions of fans have changed their lives, "All you people can't ya see can't ya see/How your love's affecting our reality/Every time we're down/You can make it right/And that makes you larger than life."


== Critical reception ==
Stephen Thomas Erlewine of AllMusic, during his review for Millennium, picked the song as a highlight from the album, while in its review for The Hits: Chapter One, he wrote that "it may be more tied to its era, but "Larger than Life" is infectious pop nonetheless." Jim Farber of Entertainment Weekly wrote that the song casts "fans as the superhuman force in the exchange between listener and star." 
Emily Exton of VH1 listed the song at number 16 on The 20 Best Backstreet Boys Songs list, writing: "Such an introspective look at 'the prices of fame' surely deserves a second chapter dedicated to the social media era. Now that we’re older, can Nick please reveal the 'other' way he wishes he could thank us?." Danielle Sweeney of The Celebrity Cafe listed the song at number 5 on the Top 10 Backstreet Boys Songs list, writing that, "This song was BSB’s dedication to all their loyal (and admittedly crazy) fans. Also, it contained the lyric, 'Looking at the crowd and I see your body sway, c'mon / Wishin' I could thank you in a different way, c’mon' which gave fans everywhere the tiniest glimmer of hope."


== Commercial performance ==
"Larger than Life" was successful in most countries charted. In Australia, the song debuted at number 3, becoming their highest debut on