Last Action Hero: Music from the Original Motion Picture is the soundtrack promoting the film Last Action Hero directed by John McTiernan starring Arnold Schwarzenegger. It was released on 8 June 1993 by Columbia Records. Among the performers whose songs were used on the soundtrack were AC/DC, Alice in Chains, Anthrax, Def Leppard, Fishbone, Megadeth, and Queensrÿche.
On July 10, the album reached number 7 on the Billboard 200 chart. On August 24, it was certified platinum in the United States for selling one million copies. This certification was granted by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). Unlike the film, the soundtrack received favorable reviews and proved to be successful. Critics praised it for the selection of artists and its diversity.


== Singles ==

The Last Action Hero: Music from the Original Motion Picture soundtrack features twelve tracks. Some artists specifically wrote premiere compositions for it, including Big Gun by AC/DC, Real World by Queensrÿche, and Last Action Hero by Tesla. Real World was created based on suggestions from Michael Kamen, who was friends with the members of Queensrÿche and had previously collaborated with them on their debut album The Warning (1984) and the single Silent Lucidity (1990). Guitarist Michael Wilton admitted that: Kamen told us he wanted a real haunting ballad, but nothing too sentimental. He also said the song should start slow, then finally break loose and really hit hard. Meanwhile, Tommy Skeoch from Tesla argued that it was actually the third or fourth time we were asked to do a movie, but it finally worked out this time. When we got the call about the movie, I felt good about it from the start. We were already writing songs for our next album (Bust a Nut, 1994), but we thought, why not write a song, it's just the right scenario. We wrote it in an hour and a half.
Jerry Cantrell, the vocalist and guitarist of Alice in Chains, claimed that the band did not write the songs What the Hell Have I and A Little Bitter specifically for the movie. He said that we were working on 'What the Hell Have I' and 'A Little Bitter' when we were asked to contribute to the soundtrack, and we thought they would be perfect. We're really happy with both songs, especially since they were the first recordings we did with our new bass player, Mike Inez. The musicians recorded both songs in the spring of 1993 during a break in their concert tour promoting the album Dirt (1992). Anthrax guitarist Scott Ian admitted that the track Poison My Eyes came from the sessions for the band's sixth studio album Sound of White Noise (1993) – When we were asked to do the soundtrack, we went back, changed the vocals again, and remixed the song. Then it sounded as good as everything on 'Sound of White Noise', so we knew it would be good for the soundtrack.
The composition Angry Again by Megadeth comes from the sessions for the band's fifth album, Countdown to Extinction (1992). Marty Friedman recalled: We didn't want to just make a 'one-off' movie song, so we took the opportunity to play another Megadeth track. We worked on 'Angry Again' with the mindset that it was as important as 'Symphony of Destruction' or 'Sweating Bullets'.
While Def Leppard was busy touring, they sent a sketch of the song Two Steps Behind, which acoustic version had appeared on the B-side of the single Make Love Like a Man a year earlier. Kamen added orchestral strings to the composition. The track Swim had appeared a few weeks earlier on Fishbone's album Give a Monkey a Brain and He’ll Swear He’s the Center of the Universe.


== Release and promotion ==

The first single promoting the soundtrack was Big Gun by AC/DC, released on May 24. The music video was directed by David Mallet, featuring Arnold Schwarzenegger (dressed in a characteristic outfit inspired by a school uniform, a trademark of guitarist Angus Young's stage attire). The song was used in trailers promoting the film, as well as in TV and radio campaigns. 