Venom: The Last Dance is an upcoming American superhero film featuring the Marvel Comics character Venom, produced by Columbia Pictures in association with Marvel, and distributed by Sony Pictures Releasing. It is intended to be the sequel to Venom (2018) and Venom: Let There Be Carnage (2021) and the fifth film in Sony's Spider-Man Universe (SSU). Written and directed by Kelly Marcel, the film stars Tom Hardy as Eddie Brock and Venom, alongside Juno Temple, Chiwetel Ejiofor, and Clark Backo.
Hardy revealed in August 2018 that he was signed on to appear in a third and final Venom film, and development had begun by December 2021, after the second film was released. Marcel and Hardy were writing the script by June 2022, and Marcel was set to make her directorial debut with the film that October. New cast members, including Temple and Ejiofor, joined in mid-2023, and filming began at the end of June in Spain. Production was halted the next month due to the 2023 SAG-AFTRA strike and resumed that November after the strike ended. The title was revealed in March 2024, at which point filming was nearly completed.
Venom: The Last Dance is scheduled to be released in the United States on October 25, 2024.


== Cast ==
Tom Hardy as Eddie Brock / Venom: An investigative journalist who is the host of Venom, an alien symbiote that imbues him with super-human abilities.
Additionally, Juno Temple has been cast as an undisclosed lead character, while Chiwetel Ejiofor and Clark Backo have been cast in undisclosed roles.


== Production ==


=== Development ===
Star Tom Hardy stated in August 2018 that he had signed on to star in three Venom films. In September 2021, Hardy noted that the producers would have to continue to develop Sony's Spider-Man Universe (SSU) in future films but said they were also interested in crossing over with the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) more. Venom: Let There Be Carnage (2021) director Andy Serkis expressed interest in returning to direct another Venom film, and felt there was more to explore with Venom in future films before the character could meet Spider-Man in a future crossover film, including further exploration of the Ravencroft Institute and other potential villains being held there. In October, Tom Holland said he and producer Amy Pascal had discussed him potentially reprising his MCU role as Peter Parker / Spider-Man in future Venom sequels, after he made a cameo appearance in Let There Be Carnage via footage from the MCU film Spider-Man: No Way Home (2021). That December, Pascal said they were in the "planning stages" of Venom 3.
Sony Pictures confirmed the film was in development at CinemaCon in April 2022. In June, Hardy revealed that Kelly Marcel was writing the screenplay after previously working on the prior Venom films and that he was co-writing the story with her. Hardy was set to be paid $20 million for his involvement. Serkis was unable to return as director due to his commitments to Animal Farm, which he had delayed to work on Let There Be Carnage, and Marcel signed on in October to make her directorial debut with the film, which was expected to conclude the Venom trilogy. She was also set to produce the film alongside Avi Arad, Matt Tolmach, Pascal, Hutch Parker, and Hardy, all doing so through their respective production companies Arad Productions, Matt Tolmach Productions, Pascal Pictures, Hutch Parker Entertainment, and Hardy, Son & Baker. Columbia Pictures also produces in association with Marvel Entertainment.


=== Pre-production ===
Hardy revealed in February 2023 that pre-production work had begun. Juno Temple entered negotiations to join the cast in an undisclosed "lead role" in April. The next month, filming was expected to begin in June in London, and Chiwetel Ejiofor joined the cast along with Temple. In June, the film was set for release in October 2024.


=== Filming ===
Principal photography began on June 26, 2023, at Los Mateos in Cartagena, Spain, as well as at the Calblanq