The Legend of 1900 (Italian: La leggenda del pianista sull'oceano, "The Legend of the Pianist on the Ocean") is a 1998 Italian English-language drama film directed by Giuseppe Tornatore, and starring Tim Roth, Pruitt Taylor Vince and Mélanie Thierry. It was Tornatore's first English-language film. The film is inspired by Novecento, a monologue by Alessandro Baricco. The film was nominated for a variety of awards worldwide, winning several for its soundtrack.


== Plot ==
The story is told in the midst of the plot as a series of flashbacks. Musician Max Tooney enters a music shop and sells his old Conn trumpet. Clearly torn at parting from his prized possession, he asks to play it one last time. The shopkeeper agrees and, as he plays, the vendor recognizes the song as the same as recorded on a record matrix (master disc) he found. He asks who the piece is by and Max tells him the story of 1900.
A baby boy is found abandoned in the first class dining room of the four stacker ocean liner SS Virginian. Danny Boodman, a coal-man from the boiler room, names the boy Danny Boodman T. D. Lemon 1900, after himself, the fruit crate the boy was found in, and the year, and raises him as his own. A few years later Danny is killed in a workplace accident. When police officers come on the ship to take him to the orphanage, 1900 hides for several days and reappears playing a piano very well without having ever been taught.
1900 shows a particular gift for music and eventually grows up, joining the ship's orchestra. When Max is hired as a member of the orchestra in 1927, the two become close friends. 1900 never leaves the vessel, the outside world is too "big" for his imagination at this point. He stays current with outside musical trends as passengers explain new music trends or styles.
His reputation as a pianist is so renowned that Jelly Roll Morton, of New Orleans jazz fame, comes aboard to challenge him to a piano duel. After hearing Morton's first tune, 1900 plays a piece so simple and well known ("Silent Night") that Morton feels mocked. As Morton becomes more determined to display his talent, he plays an impressive tune ("The Crave") that brings tears to 1900's eyes. He then plays from memory the entire tune that Morton had just played. His playing fails to impress the crowd until his original piece ("Enduring Movement"), of such virtuosity and superhuman speed that the metal piano strings become hot enough to light a cigarette, which he hands to Morton as a gesture of victory.
A record producer, hearing of 1900's prowess brings a recording apparatus aboard and cuts a demo record of a 1900 original composition. He creates the piece, inspired by a woman (The Girl) who has just boarded and mesmerizes him. When he hears the recording, 1900 takes the master disc, offended at the prospect of anyone hearing the music without him having performed it live. He then tries to give the master to The Girl who inspired it, but is unable to and breaks it into pieces.
The story flashes back to the mid-1940s periodically, as Max (who has left the ship's orchestra in 1933) is seen trying to find 1900 in the now-deserted hull of the vessel which is scheduled to be scuttled and sunk far offshore. Max returns to the ship with the recording 1900 made long ago and plays it, hoping to lure him out. Max and 1900 finally meet again and 1900 is irremovable about sinking with the ship, being daunted by the immenseness of the world. He feels his fate is tied to the ship, and cannot bring himself to leave the only home he has ever known.
As Max leaves the store, the shopkeeper gives him the trumpet back, without asking for money and saying "A good story is worth more than an old trumpet".


== Cast ==


== Reception ==
The Legend of 1900 received mixed critical reviews. On Rotten Tomatoes the film has an approval rating of 54% based on 41 reviews. On Metacritic, the film has a 58/100 rating based on 28 critics, indicating "mixed or average reviews".
The film grossed