Lifeforce is a 1985 British science fiction horror film directed by Tobe Hooper, adapted by Dan O'Bannon and Don Jakoby, and starring Steve Railsback, Peter Firth, Frank Finlay, Mathilda May, and Patrick Stewart. Based on Colin Wilson's 1976 novel The Space Vampires, the film portrays the events that unfold after a trio of humanoids in a state of suspended animation are brought to Earth after being discovered in the hold of an alien space ship by the crew of a European Space Shuttle.
Two cuts of Lifeforce were released: a 116-minute "international cut", and a 101-minute cut ordered by American distributor TriStar Pictures for the film's theatrical release in the United States. Lifeforce received generally negative reviews and was a box office failure, but has since become a cult film.


== Plot ==
The crew of the joint British and American Space Shuttle Churchill, under the command of Colonel Tom Carlsen, finds a 150-mile-long (240 km) spaceship hidden in the coma of Halley's Comet. Inside, the crew discovers hundreds of desiccated bat-like creatures and three naked humanoid bodies (two male and one female) in suspended animation within glass containers. The crew recovers a bat-alien and the three bodies and begins the return trip to Earth. During the return journey, mission control loses contact with Churchill.
A rescue mission discovers that Churchill has been gutted by fire. The crew is dead and the escape pod is missing, yet the three containers bearing the bodies remain intact. The bodies are taken to the European Space Research Centre in London. Prior to an autopsy, the female alien awakens and drains the life force from a guard. She escapes from the facility and drains other humans of their life force. The two male vampires awaken and violently attempt escape, but are apparently destroyed by grenades thrown by another guard. The guard drained by the female alien revives two hours after his death, with the ability to drain others of their life force.
The Churchill escape pod is found with Carlsen inside. He recounts the events aboard Churchill, including feeling compelled to open the female vampire's container and share his life force with her, leading to the draining of the Churchill crew's life force. He set fire to the shuttle to save Earth from the same fate and escaped in the pod. When hypnotised, it becomes clear that he has a psychic link to the female alien, and he reveals her ability to shapeshift. Carlsen and SAS Colonel Colin Caine trace her to a psychiatric hospital in Yorkshire, where they believe they have trapped her within the heavily sedated body of the hospital manager, Dr. Armstrong.
The two male vampires have survived by shapeshifting into the soldiers who killed their previous bodies, and now are infecting London's population. The female alien escapes from her sedated host and disappears. Martial law is declared as vampires multiply by absorbing the life force of humans. The life forces are channeled by the male vampires to the female vampire, who transmits the energy to their spaceship, now in geosynchronous orbit over London.
Dr. Fallada impales a male vampire with an ancient weapon of "leaded iron". He, Carlsen, and Caine surmise that the vampires have visited Earth periodically with the coming of Halley's Comet, creating the vampire legends. He passes the weapon to Caine before succumbing. Carlsen tracks the female vampire to St. Paul's Cathedral, where she is lying upon the altar, transferring energy to her spaceship. She reveals she and Carlsen are now a part of each other due to the sharing of their life forces. Caine kills the second male vampire and throws the weapon to Carlsen, who impales himself and the female alien simultaneously. A burst of energy blows open the dome of St. Paul's. The two ascend the column of energy to the spaceship, which returns to the comet as Caine watches.


== Cast ==


== Production ==


=== Background ===
Lifeforce was the first film of Tobe Hooper's three-pict