A Little Princess is a 1995 American fantasy drama film directed by Alfonso Cuarón. Loosely based upon the 1905 novel A Little Princess by Frances Hodgson Burnett, the film stars Eleanor Bron, Liam Cunningham, Liesel Matthews, Vanessa Lee Chester, Rusty Schwimmer, Arthur Malet, and Errol Sitahal. Its plot, heavily influenced by the 1939 cinematic version, focuses on a young girl who is relegated to a life of servitude at New York City boarding school after receiving news that her father was killed in combat.
A Little Princess was released in the United States by Warner Bros., through their Family Entertainment label, on May 10, 1995. The film garnered positive reviews and received various awards, including two Oscar nominations for its achievements in art direction and cinematography.


== Plot ==
In 1914, young Sara Crewe lives in India with her widowed father Richard, a wealthy British Army Officer, who shares his love for stories of myths and magic. Called in to serve in the Great War, Richard enrolls Sara at an all-girls' boarding school in New York City, which her late mother had attended run by the school’s haughty headmistress Maria Minchin, and her kindly sister Amelia. 
Instructing Maria to spare no expense for his daughter's comfort, Richard furnishes the school's largest suite and leaves Sara with a locket once owned by her mother and a doll named Emily, which he tells her will keep them connected through magic. Although stifled by Maria's strictness, Sara becomes popular among the girls, including an African-American scullery maid, Becky, for her kindness and powerful imagination. In her spare time, Sara writes to her father, who is caught in a gas attack while trying to save a fellow soldier in the trenches. 
Hoping to extort more money from Richard, Maria throws Sara a lavish birthday party, but Richard’s solicitor arrives with news that he has been killed in battle; the British government has seized his assets, leaving Sara penniless. Maria moves Sara to the school's attic with Becky to work as a servant and confiscates her belongings, including the locket, allowing Sara to keep only Emily and a book.
Though her life is bleak, Sara remains kind to others, but gets her revenge on Lavinia, a school bully. Charles Randolph, the school's elderly neighbor, receives word that his son John has been declared missing in action while fighting in Europe. Ram Dass, Charles' Indian associate, comes to notice Sara from the neighboring attic, overhearing her imaginative stories. When a wounded soldier suffering from amnesia is misidentified as John, Ram Dass encourages Charles to take the man in. 
Meanwhile, Sara's friends sneak into Maria's office and recover her locket, visiting Sara that night to hear her tales of Prince Rama. Scorned after catching Sara, along with the other girls, Maria punishes her and has Becky locked up in the attic for an entire day. Sara, however, stands up to Maria's cruelty with her father's belief that "all girls are princesses" no matter their lot in life. Sara later comforts Becky by imagining a feast and fine clothes for them, awakening to find that the dream has come true, with their attic secretly transformed by Ram Dass. 
Inspired by Sara, Amelia runs away with a milkman, and Maria soon discovers the locket is missing. Confronting Sara in the attic, she accuses her of "stealing" the finery left by Ram Dass and viciously locks Sara in her room while she summons the police. With Becky's help, Sara narrowly escapes by making a perilous climb over to the Randolph house. As Maria and the police search for her, Sara discovers that Richard is the recovering soldier but he, suffering from amnesia, does not recognize her. 
Though Maria does clearly recognize Richard, she deliberately lies by spitefully saying that Sara has "no father". As Sara is dragged away by the police, Ram Dass helps Richard regain his memory. Outside Richard saves Sara and the two are happily reunited while Maria, defeated, ang