Living in Oblivion is a 1995 American independent satirical black comedy film written and directed by Tom DiCillo, and starring Steve Buscemi, Catherine Keener, Dermot Mulroney, Danielle von Zerneck, James LeGros and Peter Dinklage in his film debut. The film won the Waldo Salt Screenwriting Award at the 1995 Sundance Film Festival for DiCillo. It received critical acclaim.


== Plot ==
The film is divided into three parts, where the film director, crew, and cast, are making a low-budget motion picture.
Part one: Director Nick Reve is shooting a low-budget independent film in New York City. The catering crew are under-funded and apathetic, deciding not to replace a carton of milk on the craft service table for a week. The scene being shot is a difficult one; a young woman, Ellen, reproaches her elderly mother for not intervening when the father beat Ellen as a child. On the set, just about everything that can go wrong does go wrong; shots are spoiled because of how the mic boom is visible; the camera assistant fails to keep the shot in focus, a light gets blown which then causes Cora, the actress playing the mother, to forget her lines and Nicole, the actress playing Ellen, to become increasingly unfocused and careless. A dispirited Nick calls for a rehearsal without camera to refresh the actors.
When Nicole berates herself for subpar acting, Cora reassures her with a gesture that reminds Nicole of a similar gesture made by her own terminally ill mother. Nicole is so upset by the memory that she turns in an unexpectedly passionate performance; Cora, startled by Nicole's sudden intensity, is equally good. Watching them, Nick repeatedly becomes enthusiastic. Unfortunately, the scene was not captured on film; cinematographer and camera operator Wolf, who has been diluting the substandard coffee with the spoiled milk, was vomiting in the toilet throughout. Nick ruefully calls for another take. This time, a sudden and insistent beeping sound distracts the actors. Nobody can tell where it is coming from and Nick flies into a rage, berating everyone on the crew and cast for their inadequacies. Nick wakes up in his own bed; the beeping sound was his own alarm clock. He has dreamed the entire segment. It is 4:30 a.m. and he is due on set.
Part two: Early the same morning, the film's lead actor Chad Palomino gets dressed in Nicole's hotel room. They have spent the night together, and Chad suggests that they might get together again later. Nicole politely declines. Chad and Nicole arrive on the set separately. Nicole's character Ellen and Chad's character Damian have been in love for years but have never admitted it, until the scene being shot on this day. Shooting the scene is made practically impossible by Chad's irregular acting. He keeps changing his mind about where to stand and continually moves to places where he is either invisible or badly lit by scenic light. Nicole gets frustrated by Chad's egomania, and when he starts to stroke her head, she briefly loses her cool and apologizes. An irritated Chad demands a private talk with Nick. He tells him that he has slept with Nicole and makes out that it was she, not he, who had wanted to continue the relationship. Desperate to keep Chad happy, Nick agrees that Nicole is very bad. Nicole overhears this conversation on the sound mixer's headphones. Pretending to be contrite, she asks Nick if they can improvise a little, but when they do so, she announces to everyone that, although she slept with Chad, she is not at all interested in him. Chad stubbornly quits the film. Relieved that he will no longer have to please Chad, Nick calls him a "Hostess Twinkie motherfucker" and a fight breaks out. Nick beats Chad senseless and fires him. He apologizes to Nicole and confesses that he loves her. They kiss, and Nicole abruptly wakes up, still in her bed, having dreamed the entire segment.
Part three: Later the same day, the crew is setting up for a dream sequence in which Nicole, as Ellen, stand