Lodger is the 13th studio album by the English musician David Bowie, released on 25 May 1979 through RCA Records. Recorded in collaboration with the musician Brian Eno and the producer Tony Visconti, it was the final release of his Berlin Trilogy, following Low and "Heroes" (both 1977). Sessions took place in Switzerland in September 1978 during a break in the Isolar II world tour, and in New York City in March 1979 at the tour's end. Most of the same personnel from prior releases returned, and the future King Crimson guitarist Adrian Belew joined from the tour. The sessions saw the use of techniques inspired by Eno's Oblique Strategies cards, such as having the musicians swap instruments and play old songs backwards.
The music on Lodger is based in art rock and experimental rock. It lacks the electronic and ambient styles and the song/instrumental split that defined its two predecessors, favouring more conventional song structures and explores styles such as avant-pop, world and new wave music. Lyrically, the album is divided into two major themes: travel (side one) and critiques of Western civilisation (side two). Pop artist Derek Boshier took the cover photo, portraying Bowie as an accident victim across the gatefold sleeve.
Lodger was a modest commercial success, peaking at number 4 in the UK and number 20 in the US. It produced four singles, including the UK top 10 hit "Boys Keep Swinging". Innovative music videos directed by David Mallet accompanied three of the four singles. The album initially received mixed critical reviews, with many calling it the weakest of the Berlin Trilogy. Reception has grown in subsequent decades and it is now widely considered to be among Bowie's most underrated albums. Its world elements have been highlighted as particularly influential. Bowie and Visconti were dissatisfied with the album's original mix and, in 2015, Visconti remixed the album with Bowie's approval for inclusion on the 2017 box set A New Career in a New Town (1977–1982), along with a remaster of the original.


== Background ==
In the second half of 1976, David Bowie moved to Switzerland with his wife Angela to remove himself from Los Angeles' drug culture. He began a very productive schedule that would continue for the next few years. He moved to the Château d'Hérouville in Hérouville, France, with his friend, the singer Iggy Pop. There, the two recorded Pop's debut studio album The Idiot (1977). He then met the musician Brian Eno in the same year, and began a series of collaborations with Eno and producer Tony Visconti that would become known as the Berlin Trilogy. The first instalment, Bowie's 11th studio album Low, was recorded at the Château from September to November 1976, with additional recording taking place at the Hansa Tonstudio in West Berlin, following Bowie and Pop's move there.
After Low's release in January 1977, Bowie toured as Pop's keyboardist. After the tour's completion, the two returned to Hansa Tonstudio, where they recorded Pop's next solo album Lust for Life (1977) in two and a half weeks, from April to May 1977. Bowie then began his next collaboration with Visconti and Eno, his 12th studio album "Heroes", which was recorded at Hansa sporadically in July and August 1977. Bowie undertook extensive promotion for "Heroes", released in October 1977, conducting numerous interviews and performing on various television programmes, including recording a collaboration, "Peace on Earth/Little Drummer Boy", with the singer Bing Crosby on Bing Crosby's Merrie Olde Christmas television special in 1977. He then recorded narration for an adaptation of Sergei Prokofiev's classical composition Peter and the Wolf, released as an album in May 1978, acted in the David Hemmings film Just a Gigolo, and began the Isolar II world tour, which lasted from March 1978 to the end of the year.


== Recording and production ==
Recording for Lodger began during the four-month break in the Isolar II world tour during September 1978.