9-1-1: Lone Star is an American procedural drama television series focusing on the fire, police, and ambulance departments of the fictional company 126, located in Austin, Texas. The use of "Lone Star" in the name associates it with Texas, the "Lone Star State". It was created for Fox by Ryan Murphy, Brad Falchuk, and Tim Minear. The series is a spin-off of the American procedural drama television series 9-1-1, and was ordered by Fox in May 2019. The series premiered on January 19, 2020.
Fox renewed the show for a fourth season in May 2022, which premiered on January 24, 2023. In May 2023, the series was renewed for a fifth season, with the premiere delayed until the fall of 2024 due to the 2023 SAG-AFTRA strike.


== Premise ==
From 9-1-1 co-creators Ryan Murphy, Brad Falchuk and Tim Minear, 9-1-1: Lone Star follows a sophisticated New York firefighter who, along with his son, relocates from Manhattan, New York to Austin, Texas. He must try to balance the duties of saving those who are at their most vulnerable and solving the problems in his own life. He is joined by other firefighters as well as members of the police department and emergency medical services. Series star Rob Lowe serves as co-executive producer.


== Cast and characters ==


=== Overview ===


=== Main ===
Rob Lowe as Owen Marshal Strand, firefighter captain from New York City and TK's father. He was diagnosed with lung cancer as a result of being a first responder to the September 11 attacks, in which he also lost his entire firehouse. Having rebuilt his team in New York, he was asked to do the same for the 126 in Austin.
Liv Tyler as Michelle Blake (season 1): the paramedic Emergency Medical Services (EMS) captain. She is also trying to locate her sister Iris, who has been missing for three years. It is revealed in the second season that she left the 126 to help homeless people with mental illness like her sister.
Ronen Rubinstein as Tyler Kennedy "TK" Strand, a dual certified firefighter-paramedic with the 126. He is a recovering opioid addict and Captain Strand's son. A former addict, TK overdosed just prior to his arrival in Austin. He starts a relationship with police officer Carlos Reyes. In season 2, he quit being a firefighter and became a paramedic. At the end of season 3, he proposed to Carlos and the two marry in the fourth season finale.
Sierra McClain as Grace Ryder (née Williams), a 9-1-1 operator and Judd's wife.
Jim Parrack as Judson "Judd" Ryder, firefighter and Grace's husband. Judd is the sole survivor of 126's previous team's fire disaster.
Natacha Karam as Marjan Marwani, a firefighter and paramedic. Marjan is an adrenaline junkie, a devout Muslim, and an Instagram celebrity.
Brian Michael Smith as Paul Strickland, a firefighter and paramedic with a keen eye for details. Paul is also a trans man.
Rafael L. Silva as Carlos Tomas Reyes, a police officer with the Austin Police Department, who begins a romantic relationship with TK. TK proposes at the end of season 3 and after his father is murdered, they get married in the season 4 finale.
Julian Works as Mateo Chavez. He is severely dyslexic, and is a DREAM-er who must keep his job or be deported.
Gina Torres as Tommy Vega (season 2–present): an EMS replacement captain. Tommy, mother of twin daughters, re-entered the workforce after eight years, to support her family when COVID-19 caused her husband's restaurant to close.
Brianna Baker as Nancy Gillian (recurring, seasons 1–2; season 3–present): A paramedic who is a member of the Rescue 126 EMS crew.
Kelsey Yates as Isabella "Izzy" Vega (guest, season 2; season 3–present): Tommy's daughter and Evie's twin sister.
Skyler Yates as Evie Vega (guest, season 2; season 3–present): Tommy's daughter and Izzy's twin sister.


=== Recurring ===
Kyle Secor as Deputy Chief Alden Radford (season 1; guest, season 2): A fire chief who convinces Owen to come to Austin to rebuild Station 126.
Mark Elias as Timothy M. Rosewater (seasons 1–2): A paramedic w