Lonely Are the Brave is a 1962 American black and white Western film adaptation of the Edward Abbey novel The Brave Cowboy directed by David Miller from a screenplay by Dalton Trumbo and starring Kirk Douglas, Gena Rowlands and Walter Matthau.
Kirk Douglas plays cowboy Jack Burns, Gena Rowlands portrays his best friend's wife and Walter Matthau appears as a sheriff who sympathizes with Burns but must do his job and chase him down. The picture also features an early score by composer Jerry Goldsmith. Douglas said repeatedly that this was his favorite film of his own work.


== Plot ==
John W. "Jack" Burns is a veteran of the Korean War who works as a roaming ranch hand, much as the cowboys of the old West did, refusing to join modern society. He rejects most of modern technology and carries no identification, such as a driver's license or draft card. He cannot even provide the authorities with a home address because he just sleeps wherever he finds a place.
As Burns crosses a highway into a town in New Mexico, his horse Whiskey has a difficult time crossing the road, confused and scared by the traffic. They enter town to visit Jerry, the wife of an old friend, Paul Bondi, who has been jailed for giving aid to illegal immigrants. Jack explains his dislike for a society that restricts a man on what he can or cannot do.
To break Bondi out of jail, Burns decides he himself needs to get arrested. After a violent bar room fight against a one-armed man, in which he is forced to use only one arm himself, Burns is arrested. When the police decide to let him go, he deliberately punches a cop to get himself re-arrested. He is now facing a probable sentence of a year in jail, which allows him to see Bondi, with the aim of helping him escape. The town is in a sleepy border area and the cops are mostly bored, occasionally dealing with minor offenses. The sheriff, Morey Johnson, has to compel them to pay attention to their duties at times.
Joining Bondi in jail, Burns tries to persuade him to escape. He tells Bondi he could not spend a year locked up because he would probably kill someone. Burns defends Bondi from the attention of sadistic Deputy Sheriff Gutierrez, who picks Burns as his next target. At night, the inmates saw through one of the jail's bars using two hacksaw blades Burns had hidden in one of his boots. The deputy summons Burns in the middle of the night and beats him. On returning to his cell, Burns tries to persuade Bondi to join him in escaping. Bondi has accepted his two-year sentence knowing he has a family waiting and has too much at stake to become a fugitive from the law. He therefore decides to remain, and Burns breaks out by himself, returning to Bondi's house, where he picks up his horse and some food from Bondi's wife. After the jailbreak, the sheriff learns that Burns served in the military during the Korean War, including seven months in a disciplinary training center for striking a superior officer. He also received a Purple Heart and a Distinguished Service Cross with oak leaf clusters for his valor during battle.
Burns heads for the mountains on horseback with the goal of crossing the border into Mexico. The police mount an extensive search, with Sheriff Johnson and Deputy Sheriff Harry following him in a jeep. A military helicopter is brought in, and when the aircrew locates Burns they relay his location to the sheriff. Whiskey is repeatedly spooked by the helicopter, so Burns shoots the tail rotor, damaging it and causing the pilot to lose control and crash land.
Deputy Gutierrez also chases Burns. He sees the horse and is preparing to shoot when Burns sneaks up, knocking him unconscious with his rifle butt. Burns leads his horse up difficult, rocky slopes to escape his pursuers, but the lawmen keep on his trail, forcing him to keep moving. Surrounded on three sides, Burns' horse refuses at first to climb a steep slope. They finally surmount the crest of the Sandia Mountains and escape into the east side of t