Looking for Richard is a 1996 American documentary film directed by Al Pacino, in his directorial debut. It is a hybrid film, including both a filmed performance of selected scenes of William Shakespeare's Richard III and a documentary element which explores a broader examination of Shakespeare's continuing role and relevance in popular culture. The film was featured at the Sundance Film Festival in January 1996 and it was screened in the Un Certain Regard section at the 1996 Cannes Film Festival. Al Pacino won the Directors Guild of America Award for Outstanding Directing – Documentaries.


== Description ==
Pacino plays both himself and the title character, Richard III.  The film guides the audience through the play's plot and historical background.  Pacino and several fellow actors, including Penelope Allen and Harris Yulin, act out scenes from the play.
In addition, the actors comment on their roles.  Pacino also features other actors famous for performing Shakespeare, such as Vanessa Redgrave, Kenneth Branagh, John Gielgud, Derek Jacobi, James Earl Jones, and Kevin Kline. Pacino includes interviews with Shakespeare scholars such as Barbara Everett, as well as ordinary people on the street.


== Cast ==
Al Pacino as Richard III
Penelope Allen as Queen Elizabeth
Harris Yulin as King Edward
Kevin Spacey as Buckingham
Winona Ryder as Lady Anne
Madison Arnold as Rivers
Vincent Angell as Grey
Gordon MacDonald as Dorset
Kevin Conway as Lord Hastings
Julie Moret as Mistress Shore
Estelle Parsons as Queen Margaret
Alec Baldwin as Clarence
Aidan Quinn as Richmond
Bruce MacVittie 1st Murderer
Paul Guilfoyle 2nd Murderer


== Reception ==
The film received positive reviews from critics. On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, 82% of 49 critics' reviews are positive, with an average rating of 7.1/10. The website's consensus reads: "Looking for Richard is a smart, fascinating behind-the-scenes look at adapting Shakespeare."


== References ==


== External links ==
Looking for Richard at IMDb 
Looking for Richard at Rotten Tomatoes
Looking for Richard at Box Office Mojo
Magazine Americana, December 2001 web article, "Looking Through Richard: Al Pacino and his Call to Shakespeare".