Lord of the Flies is a 1990 American survival drama film directed by Harry Hook and starring Balthazar Getty, Chris Furrh, Danuel Pipoly, and James Badge Dale. It was produced by Lewis M. Allen and written by Jay Presson Allen under the pseudonym "Sara Schiff", based on the 1954 book Lord of the Flies, by William Golding. It is the second film adaptation of the book, after Lord of the Flies (1963).
The film differs in many ways from both its predecessor film and the novel. Lord of the Flies centers on Ralph mainly, as the children try to initiate a society after crash-landing on an uncharted island, but things go awry.
The film was released on March 16, 1990, by Columbia Pictures. Upon and since its release, the film has received mixed reviews, generally more negative than its 1963 counterpart. Most critics praise the film's performances and scenery but center upon the film's deviations from the novel as a central flaw. It was also a box-office bomb, grossing $13 million domestically.


== Plot ==
An aircraft carrying 24 American military school cadet boys returning home ditches near an uninhabited jungle island in the Pacific Ocean. Captain Benson, the pilot of the plane and the only adult survivor, is seriously injured and delirious. During the night, Simon, the most independent cadet, finds a river and notifies the other boys, which they all drink from and explore the island afterwards. Meanwhile, on the beach, an overweight cadet nicknamed "Piggy", finds a conch seashell and takes it to Ralph and the grouped cadets, who use it to signal the right to speak and be heard by the group. The senior cadet, Cadet Colonel Ralph, organizes a meeting to discuss surviving their predicament. Ralph and another of the older boys, Jack, emerge dominant, and an impromptu election is held to determine an official leader for the group. Ralph is declared the winner. They start a fire using Piggy's glasses to try and alert any passing aircraft, burning a tallgrass field in the process. Jack tells everyone a story about a "monster". Things go smoothly for a while, but Jack and Piggy become tense with each other and Jack starts to get too enthusiastic about hunting wild pigs. Soon, after Ralph confronts everyone about playing and not working to get rescued, Jack and his second-in-command, Roger, start to think tensely about Ralph as well. Capt. Benson, still delirious over his condition, starts wandering away but doesn't get too far when Jack finds him nearby.
After Capt. Benson deliriously wanders away for a second time, Jack and Roger, along with a few other boys, start painting their faces and properly hunting pigs. One night, as they sleep, Jack brings all of his hunters to hunt in the jungle, leaving no one watching the fire. The fire goes out, preventing a passing helicopter from noticing them. Ralph then confronts Jack for failing to watch the fire and letting it go out. During the ensuing fight, Jack, tired of listening to Ralph and Piggy, leaves and forms his own camp, taking many of the boys with him. As more and more boys defect to Jack's side, one cadet on Jack's side, Larry, goes into a cave and encounters something. Mistaking it for a monster, likewise to Jack's aforementioned story, he stabs it with his spear and runs down to tell Jack. Jack and his tribe go to investigate, and seemingly hear a growling noise. 
One night, Jack and his savages steal the group's survival knife, accidentally trampling on Piggy's glasses in the process, breaking one lens. Expecting to be rescued, Ralph's civilized leadership establishes a permanent signal-fire to alert passing aircraft or ships of their presence on the island. Not expecting or wanting to be rescued, Jack's savage leadership adapts to circumstance; he establishes his camp as spear-bearing hunters who provide meat for both camps. They kill a pig, decapitate it using the knife and leave its head as an offering to the "monster" that they believe is in the cave. Eventually, identical twins