"Love Is All Around" is a song recorded by English rock band the Troggs. Released as a single in October 1967, it was a top-ten hit in both the UK and US. 
"Love Is All Around" has been covered by numerous artists, including R.E.M., with whom the Troggs subsequently recorded their 1992 comeback album Athens Andover. R.E.M.'s cover was a B-side on their 1991 "Radio Song" single, and they also played it during their first appearance at MTV's Unplugged series that same year. Wet Wet Wet's cover, for the soundtrack to the 1994 film Four Weddings and a Funeral, was an international hit and spent 15 consecutive weeks at number one on the UK Singles Chart.


== Writing and original recording ==
 
Reg Presley, lead singer of the Troggs, wrote "Love Is All Around" in about ten minutes, inspired by a TV broadcast of the Salvation Army band Joystrings performing an evangelical song titled "Love That's All Around". The Troggs recorded Presley's song at Pye Studios for the record label Page One owned by their manager Larry Page, who also produced the recording. The single was released in the UK in October 1967. The Troggs had intended to sever ties with Page and his record label earlier that year; however, after the success of the single they decided to stay, though changed managers. The single was released in the rest of Europe and North America on Fontana Records. The B-side, "When Will the Rain Come" was written by drummer Ronnie Bond.
On the UK Record Retailer chart (since recognised as the official chart for this period), "Love Is All Around" spent a total of 14 weeks on the chart, reaching its peak at number 5 in the fourth week of November 1967. Whilst, in the US, although it was released there in November 1967, the song did not enter the Billboard Hot 100 until February 1968. It spent a total of 16 weeks on the chart, reaching its peak at number 7 in the third week of May. "Love Is All Around" also performed well in Europe, becoming a top-twenty hit in several countries, though it failed to recapture the success of the Troggs' early singles such as "Wild Thing" and "With a Girl Like You". However, the song performed best in Southern Africa, where it topped the charts in South Africa and Rhodesia.


== Critical reception ==
Reviewing for New Musical Express, Derek Johnson wrote that "Love Is All Around" is "set to a fairly slow rhythm, with an appealing scoring of guitars, violins and cellos – plus a melody that takes a little time to register, but once you've got it in your mind, it sticks there! Reg sings warmly and sincerely – departing from that rather stilted style which has characterised many of the group's discs". Peter Jones for Record Mirror described it as "optimistic and cheery and full of sentiment. Like the way the string section is insinuating itself as it builds. Rather a serene slice of Troggs". For Disc and Music Echo, Penny Valentine wrote that "although this has none of their trademark of suggestive hip-thumping rhythm and Reg Presley making love to the mike, it is quite pleasant. At the beginning, I liked it very much with its closed-up gentle sound and pretty strings. It would have been nice if something had happened, but it just went on, which I somehow think will be its downfall".
Billboard wrote that "this smooth, easy beat ballad with good lyric line should be just the commercial entry to put the British group back in their top selling bag in the U.S.". Cash Box described it as a "steady-moving, romance-slanted soft rocker... [that] could make noise".


== Charts ==


== Wet Wet Wet version ==

Richard Curtis approached Scottish band Wet Wet Wet about recording a cover song to soundtrack his 1994 film Four Weddings and a Funeral. The band got to pick between three choices of songs, the other two being "I Will Survive" by Gloria Gaynor and "Can't Smile Without You" by Barry Manilow. Singer Marti Pellow related that the decision to pick "Love is All Around" was an easy choice "because we knew we could make it 