The Love Bug (also known as Herbie the Love Bug) is a 1969 American sports adventure comedy film directed by Robert Stevenson from a screenplay by Bill Walsh and Don DaGradi, based on the story "Car, Boy, Girl" by Gordon Buford. The film is the first installment in the Herbie film series.
The film follows the adventures of a sentient Volkswagen Beetle named Herbie, Herbie's driver, Jim Douglas (Dean Jones), and Jim's love interest, Carole Bennett (Michele Lee). It also features Buddy Hackett as Jim's enlightened, kind-hearted friend, Tennessee Steinmetz, a character who creates "art" from used car parts. English actor David Tomlinson portrays the villainous Peter Thorndyke, the owner of an automobile showroom and an SCCA national champion who sells Herbie to Jim and eventually becomes his racing rival.
The Love Bug was followed by Herbie Rides Again (1974).


== Plot ==

Race car driver Jim Douglas has been reduced to competing in demolition derby races against drivers half his age. Jim lives in an old fire house overlooking San Francisco Bay with his friend Tennessee Steinmetz, a claimant of Buddhist enlightenment, who is a mechanic and sculptor who uses old car parts. At an upmarket European car showroom, Jim meets mechanic/sales assistant Carole Bennett, and the dealership's British owner, Peter Thorndyke, who abuses a white Volkswagen Beetle which had been returned to the showroom that morning. Lacking money, Jim leaves Thorndyke's showroom, but the Beetle follows him home. After a police run-in on charges of grand theft, Jim agrees to lease-purchase the little car.
At first, Jim does not take kindly to the Beetle's reluctance to take the freeway and later pairing him with Carole, and suspects Thorndyke has conned him with a faulty car. However, Tennessee believes the car has a mind of its own, and befriends it, naming it "Herbie".
Jim prepares Herbie for racing, and to the astonishment of Thorndyke, Herbie wins his first race. Jim and Herbie then defeat Thorndyke himself in a race at Riverside Raceway, giving Jim full ownership of Herbie, and go on a winning streak, leaving Thorndyke frustrated as to how Jim and Herbie are achieving their success. Thorndyke infiltrates Tennessee's garage the night before their next race whilst Jim and Carol are on a date, and sabotages Herbie by pouring Irish coffee into the gas tank, causing Herbie to fail to finish the race the following day. A disgusted Jim, with his eyes now on the upcoming El Dorado road race, decides to switch out Herbie for a brand new Lamborghini 400 GT, much to Carole (who quit her job in Thorndyke's showroom in protest) and Tennessee's anger. Jealous and upset at Jim's treatment, Herbie damages the Lamborghini and runs away. Depressed, he allows himself to be captured by Thorndyke, only to flee when the latter orders his men to disassemble him.
Finally realising that Herbie is alive, Jim follows Herbie as he leaves a trail of damage through the city. He finds Herbie trying to throw himself off the Golden Gate Bridge. Jim risks his life to stop Herbie, and they make amends. At the police station, Tang Wu (Benson Fong), a Chinese-American businessman whose store had been damaged by Herbie, offers to drop the damage charges in exchange for ownership of Herbie after revealing himself to be a racing fan. Jim and Tennessee accept Wu's offer, provided they drive Herbie in the El Dorado, Wu agreeing to sell Herbie back to Jim for a dollar should they win.
The El Dorado, a two-day, out-and-back open road race, runs through the Sierra Nevada mountains from Yosemite Valley to Virginia City and back. On the first leg, Thorndyke and his co-driver Havershaw carry out a series of dirty tricks against Herbie. As a result of Thorndyke's shenanigans, Jim (with Carole and Tennessee as co-drivers) limps home last with Herbie missing two wheels and having to use a wagon wheel to get to the line. During overnight repairs, Herbie refuses to restart, and Wu reveals that he also made an