Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome, commonly known as Mad Max 3, is a 1985 Australian post-apocalyptic dystopian action film directed by George Miller and George Ogilvie and written by Terry Hayes and Miller. It is the third installment in the Mad Max franchise. The film stars Mel Gibson and Tina Turner, and follows a lone roving warrior who is exiled into the desert. It was Gibson's last performance as "Mad Max" Rockatansky.
Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome was released in Australia on 10 July 1985. The film received generally positive reviews from critics. A fourth film, Mad Max: Fury Road, was released in 2015, starring Tom Hardy as Max.


== Plot ==
The world is a post-apocalyptic wasteland caused by ecocide and a nuclear war over resources. In Australia Max Rockatansky is crossing the desert in a motor vehicle pulled by camels. The airborne bandit Jedediah and his young son attack him and steal his vehicle, and Max follows Jedediah's trail to a trading post called "Bartertown". Initially refused entry because he has nothing to trade, he impresses the local officials with his toughness, and the founder and ruler of the town, Aunty Entity (Tina Turner), offers to resupply him if he completes a task.
Aunty explains that Bartertown's precious energy comes from a subterranean refinery, called "Underworld", that turns pig feces into methane. The refinery is run by a resourceful dwarf called Master, who rides around on Blaster, his giant bodyguard. "Master Blaster" has begun to challenge Aunty for control of Bartertown, and she wants Max to kill Blaster so she can more easily subvert Master to her will. 
Max infiltrates Underworld to size up Master Blaster and befriends Pig Killer, a convict sentenced to work there for slaughtering a pig to feed his children. When Master Blaster learns his newly-acquired vehicle belonged to Max, he forces Max to disarm a booby-trap. In doing so, Max sets off his alarm and discovers that Blaster is hypersensitive to high-pitched noises.
Back on the surface, Aunty tells Max that, by law, conflicts in Bartertown are resolved by a fight to the death in a gladiatorial arena called Thunderdome. Max publicly accuses Master of stealing his vehicle, and a battle is scheduled against Blaster. The giant dominates until Max blows a bosun's whistle, which makes Blaster grab his head in pain. Max knocks Blaster's helmet off and prepares to kill him, but relents upon seeing that Blaster has an intellectual disability. Max reveals Aunty's plot and Master threatens to shut down the refinery, so Aunty has Blaster killed. She is then able to terrorize Master into keeping the refinery running.
For breaking a deal, Max is bound, placed on a horse, and sent into the Wasteland (Gulag), his punishment determined by the spin of a wheel. When the horse collapses from exhaustion, Max frees himself and continues on foot until he also collapses.
A warrior girl called Savannah Nix finds Max near death and hauls him back to her home, an oasis called "Planet Erf", populated by a primitive tribe of teenagers and children. The children are descended from survivors of a crashed Boeing 747, some of whom left to seek help and never returned. They believe Max is the pilot, "Captain Walker", come to fix the aeroplane and fly them to the fabled "Tomorrow-morrow Land". Max denies he is Walker and insists there is no longer any civilisation like that in their stories. Disillusioned, a group of teenagers and children led by Savannah wants to attempt the journey to Bartertown, but Max stops them and has them tied up, saying everyone should go on living in the oasis.
During the night, the separatists escape. Max agrees to bring them back, taking a few members of the tribe along, but both parties are in bad shape by the time he catches up. Out of supplies, Max is forced to lead the contingent back to Bartertown.
The combined group sneaks into Underworld and, with Pig Killer's help, frees Master and escapes in a modified truck down some train tracks, dest