Mad Max 2 (released as The Road Warrior in the United States) is a 1981 Australian post-apocalyptic dystopian action film directed by George Miller, who co-wrote it with Terry Hayes and Brian Hannant. It is the second installment in the Mad Max franchise. The film stars Mel Gibson reprising his role as "Mad Max" Rockatansky and follows a hardened man who helps a community of settlers to defend themselves against a roving band of marauders. Filming took place in locations around Broken Hill, in the Outback of New South Wales.
Mad Max 2 was released in Australia on 24 December 1981 to widespread critical acclaim, with particular praise given to Gibson's performance, the musical score, cinematography, action sequences, costume design and sparing use of dialogue. It was also a box office success, and the film's post-apocalyptic and punk aesthetics helped popularise the genre in film and fiction writing. At the 10th Saturn Awards, the film won Best International Film and was nominated for five more awards: Best Director, Best Actor for Gibson, Best Supporting Actor for Bruce Spence, Best Writing, and Best Costumes for Norma Moriceau. Mad Max 2 is widely hailed as both one of the greatest action movies of all time and one of the greatest sequels ever made, and fan clubs for the film and "road warrior"-themed activities continue into the 21st century.
Preceded by Mad Max in 1979, the film was followed by Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome in 1985, Mad Max: Fury Road in 2015 and Furiosa: A Mad Max Saga in 2024.


== Plot ==
After a global war resulted in widespread oil shortages and ecocide, civilization collapsed, and the world descended into barbarism. Now, former policeman Max Rockatansky, haunted by the death of his family, drives his supercharged black V-8 Pursuit Special around the desert wilderness of Australia, scavenging for food and petrol with his Australian Cattle Dog. He outmaneuvers a small group of marauders led by the unhinged biker Wez using his driving skills and a sawed-off shotgun. He steals some gasoline from the wrecked vehicles of one of his pursuers and inspects a wrecked semi-trailer and prime mover.
Later, Max tries collecting an apparently abandoned gyrocopter's fuel, but is ambushed by the pilot. Max overpowers the man with his dog's help, sparing his life in return for being led to a working oil refinery the pilot has discovered. They arrive during the daily attack on the facility by a motley motorised gang, of which Wez is a member.
The next day, Max witnesses several cars leave the besieged compound and get chased down by marauders. He rescues Nathan, the sole survivor of one car, and strikes a deal to return him to the complex in exchange for fuel, but the man dies shortly after Max gets him back, and the leader of the settlers, Pappagallo, says the deal died with Nathan. The settlers are about to confiscate Max's car and cast him out of their compound when the marauders return to negotiate. A feral child who lives in the refinery compound kills Wez's partner with a metal boomerang and Wez wants revenge, but the gang's leader, a muscular masked man called "Lord Humungus", offers to spare the settlers' lives in exchange for their fuel supply and leaves for the day. However, the settlers are divided over whether or not they can trust Humungus. 
Max offers his own deal: he will bring them the semi-truck he saw earlier so they can try to haul away their tanker full of oil, if they return his car and give him as much fuel as he can carry. The settlers agree, and that night Max sneaks past the marauders on foot carrying fuel for the truck. He encounters the Gyro Captain and forces him to fly him to the truck, which he is able to get started. It is somewhat damaged as Max passes through the marauders' encampment on the way back to the refinery, but he makes it, followed by the gyrocopter.
Max refuses Pappagallo's entreaty to accompany the settlers to a fabled northern paradise, opting instead to collect his fuel and l