Mad Max is an Australian media franchise created by George Miller and Byron Kennedy. It centers on a series of post-apocalyptic and dystopian action films. The franchise began in 1979 with Mad Max, and was followed by three sequels: Mad Max 2 (1981; released in the United States as The Road Warrior), Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome (1985) and Mad Max: Fury Road (2015); Miller directed or co-directed all four films. A spin-off, Furiosa: A Mad Max Saga, was released in 2024 and was also directed by Miller. Mel Gibson portrayed the title character Max Rockatansky in the first three films, while Tom Hardy portrayed the character in Mad Max: Fury Road.
The series follows Max, who starts the series as a police officer in a future Australia which is experiencing societal collapse due to war, critical resource shortages, and ecocide. When his wife and child are murdered by a vicious biker gang, Max kills the gang in revenge. As Australia devolves further into barbarity, Max becomes a wandering drifter in the radioactive wasteland. He periodically encounters remaining pockets of civilisation, which rope him into their political machinations or personal problems. Typically, Max goes along for self-interested reasons, but eventually his motives become more altruistic. Most Mad Max films are told from the perspective of a questionably reliable narrator retelling the story many years after the fact, suggesting that the character of Max has crossed over into the folklore of a survivor civilisation.
The series has been well received by critics; Mad Max 2 and Fury Road in particular have been ranked among the best action films ever made. The series has also had a significant influence on popular culture, most notably apocalyptic and post-apocalyptic fiction, and encompasses works in additional media including video games and comic books. In 2016, Fury Road became the first film of the Mad Max franchise to receive Academy Award recognition, winning six of its ten nominations.


== Films ==


=== Mad Max (1979) ===

Mad Max is a 1979 Australian action film directed by George Miller and written by Miller and James McCausland from a story by Miller and producer Byron Kennedy. Set "a few years from now", it tells the story of highway policeman Max Rockatansky, who is repeatedly attacked by a criminal biker gang amidst a broader social breakdown, and who is caught between his opposing desires to stay home with his family and to take revenge on the bikers.
The film, starring the then little-known Mel Gibson, was released internationally in 1980. It became a top-grossing Australian film, and has been credited for further opening the global market to Australian New Wave films. For twenty years, it held the record in the Guinness Book of Records for the most profitable film ever made. The Blair Witch Project claimed the record in 1999.


=== Mad Max 2 (1981) ===

Mad Max 2 (released as The Road Warrior in the United States) is a 1981 Australian post-apocalyptic action film directed by George Miller and written by Miller, Terry Hayes, and Brian Hannant. Mel Gibson returned as Max Rockatansky. In this film, the societal breakdown depicted in Mad Max has degenerated into a global apocalypse, for which the film's prologue provides additional backstory. Max, now wandering through the post-apocalyptic wasteland, meets a community of oil drillers trying to defend itself against a roving band of marauders. The film follows an archetypal "Western" frontier movie motif, as does Max's role as a hardened man who rediscovers his humanity. Miller explained that the Mad Max films "effectively look forward to the past ... in the same way that the American Western allowed for allegory figures playing out morality tales in a landscape."
This sequel to Miller's Mad Max was a worldwide box office success that further boosted the career of Mel Gibson.


=== Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome (1985) ===

Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome is a 1985 film, the third installment in the franchise. 