Furiosa: A Mad Max Saga (or simply Furiosa) is a 2024 Australian post-apocalyptic action film directed and produced by George Miller, who wrote the screenplay with Nico Lathouris. It is the fifth installment in the Mad Max franchise, serving as a prequel and spin-off to Mad Max: Fury Road (2015), and focuses on the Fury Road character Imperator Furiosa. The film stars Anya Taylor-Joy and Alyla Browne as younger versions of Furiosa (originally portrayed by Charlize Theron), alongside Chris Hemsworth and Tom Burke.
Set 15 to 20 years before the events of Fury Road, in a desert wasteland where warlords fight over the last remaining sources of water, food, weapons, and gasoline, Furiosa traces the young title character's life from her kidnapping by the forces of warlord Dementus (Hemsworth) to her revenge on the warlord for the loss of her mother. For over a decade, she struggles to survive as a slave and, eventually, a trusted lieutenant of the Citadel's cult leader, Immortan Joe (Lachy Hulme), and his military commander Praetorian Jack (Burke).
Miller initially intended to shoot Furiosa back-to-back with Fury Road, but the former spent several years in development hell amidst salary disputes with Warner Bros. Pictures, Fury Road's distributor. Several crew members from Fury Road returned for Furiosa, including composer Tom Holkenborg, costume designer Jenny Beavan, editor Margaret Sixel (Miller's wife), and screenwriter Lathouris. Filming took place in Australia from June to October 2022.
Furiosa: A Mad Max Saga premiered at the 77th Cannes Film Festival on 15 May 2024. It was released in theatres in Australia by Warner Bros. on 23 May 2024, and in the United States the following day. The film received positive reviews from critics. Despite this, the film's $110 million box office draw in its first two weeks has been characterized as an underperformance compared to its $168 million budget. According to some reports, the New South Wales government covered as much as half the film's budget.

