The Madness of George III is a 1991 play by Alan Bennett. It is a fictionalised biographical study of the latter half of the reign of George III of the United Kingdom, his battle with mental illness, and the inability of his court to handle his condition. It was adapted for film in 1994 as The Madness of King George.


== Performance history ==
The play had its premiere on 28 November 1991 at the Lyttelton Theatre of the National Theatre in London. It was directed by Nicholas Hytner and designed by  Mark Thompson. The play starred Nigel Hawthorne as George III, Janet Dale as Queen Charlotte and Michael Fitzgerald as the Prince of Wales, also starring Julian Wadham, Charles Kay, Adrian Scarborough, Mark Lockyer and David Henry.
After its London run, the production toured the UK and the United States, returned to the National Theatre in 1993 and was then presented in Athens and Israel in 1994. Hawthorne repeated the role in the 1994 film, earning a Best Actor nomination in the Academy Awards.
The play was staged at the Lowell Davies Festival Theatre in San Diego, California, from June 19 to September 24, 2010.
On 18 January 2012, the play was revived at the Apollo Theatre. David Haig played George III.
A further revival took place in November 2018, at Nottingham Playhouse, with Mark Gatiss as the lead. This production was streamed on the National Theatre's YouTube channel in June 2020 as part of the NT at Home season.


== Plot ==


== Cast ==


=== Original Cast (National Theatre, 1991) ===
Nigel Hawthorne as George III
Janet Dale as Queen Charlotte
Michael Fitzgerald as the Prince of Wales
Julian Wadham as William Pitt
Anthony Calf as Captain Fitzroy
Daniel Flynn as Captain Greville
Charles Kay as Dr. Willis
David Henry as Charles Fox
Matthew Lloyd Davies as Papendiek
Brian Shelley as Fortnum
Paul Kynman as Ramsden Skrimshire


=== Second London Run (Apollo Theatre, 2012) ===
Source:

David Haig as George III
Beatie Edney as Queen Charlotte
Christopher Keegan as the Prince of Wales
William Belchambers as the Duke of York
Charlotte Asprey as Lady Pembroke
Ed Cooper Clarke as Captain Fitzroy
Orlando James as Captain Greville
Beruce Khan as Papandiek
Ryan Saunders as Fortnum
Peter McGovern as Braun
Simon Markey as Prince's Footman
Gary Mackay as Prince's Valet
Nicholas Rowe as William Pitt
Thomas Wheatley as Lord Thurlow
Richard Hansell as Dundas
Gary Oliver as Charles Fox
Patrick Moy as Sheridan
Peter Pacey as Sir George Baker
Madhav Sharma as Dr Richard Warren
John Webb as Sir Lucas Pepys
Clive Francis as Dr. Willis
Karen Winchester as Margaret Nicholson
Chris McCalphy as Willis' Henchman
Haseeb Malik as Warren's assistant


=== Nottingham Playhouse Run (2018) ===
Mark Gatiss as George III
Adrian Scarborough as Dr Willis
Debra Gillett as Queen Charlotte
Nadia Albina as Fitzroy
Nicholas Bishop as William Pitt
Amanda Hadingue as Fox/Dr Pepys
Jack Holden as Greville
David Hounslow as Thurlow
Stephanie Jacob as Dr Baker/Sheridan
Louise Jameson as Dr Warren
Andrew Joshi as Dundas
Adam Karim as Fortnum
Harry Kershaw as Duke of York
Billy Postlethwaite as Braun
Sara Powell as Lady Pembroke
Wilf Scolding as Prince of Wales
Jessica Temple as Papandiek


== Reviews ==
The play has been viewed as a character study for the actor who plays George III and most reviewers attribute its success to compelling performances from the two actors, Hawthorne and Haig, who played the king. Frank Rich of The New York Times singled out Nigel Hawthorne's performance in the US tour, calling it "astonishing" and "unforgettable", but he labelled the play itself as not "one of Bennett's major works" and as being more "marketable to Broadway and the colonies". Writing about the 2012 revival, Lyn Gardner said that Luscombe's production reminds us that "Bennett is not writing a royal Downton Abbey, but a play exploring appearance and reality", and that the play brings out the fact that amidst all the royal pomp the king is merely a man like everybody else. In Th