Truth or Dare by Madonna was a lifestyle brand by American singer Madonna. It was the second enterprise from MG Icon LLC, a joint venture between Madonna, her manager Guy Oseary and Iconix Brand Group. This is the second brand from the venture after Material Girl, which is a fashion line designed by Madonna and her daughter Lourdes and launched in 2010. Initially the line launched with handbags, footwear, accessories, intimates and fragrances.
The brand's primary demographic was women in the age range of 27–50 and its commodities would include a variety of apparel. In March 2012, the second product, women's footwear was announced to be launched in the fall of 2012 in association with ALDO Group. The first product released was a perfume of the same name, released by Coty, Inc. and launched in the United States in April 2012 exclusively to Macy's departmental stores, and globally in May 2012. Madonna wanted to create a contemporary version of her mother's fragrance, and collaborated with perfume maker Stephen Nilsen. She collaborated with Fabien Baron on the promotional activities.


== Background ==
In November 2011, Madonna announced plans of launching her own global lifestyle brand, called Truth or Dare by Madonna; it is her second lifestyle brand following Material Girl with her daughter Lourdes. The architect of the brand is "MG Icon" which is a joint venture between Iconix Brand Group Inc., Madonna and her manager Guy Oseary. The chief executive officer of Iconix Brand Group, Neil Cole, felt that there is enough interest behind fashion brands introduced by Madonna. Drawing the example of the Material Girl brand—which was already a commercial success—Cole believed that there would be high demand for a brand that is endoresed solely by Madonna. Truth or Dare would be initially launched with handbags, footwear, accessories, intimates and fragrances. Since the Material Girl clothing was aimed at teenagers, Madonna's target for the brand was women in the age range of 27–50. In an interview with Women's Wear Daily, Madonna stated her inspiration behind the name Truth or Dare:

Over the past several years, I have been approached countless times to create my own brand. The timing is right and I have found great partners in Iconix, who can help translate my vision to reality. I have always been obsessed by fragrance and for years wanted to create something personal that was an expression of me but that other people could relate to as well. Something honest, and yet daring, hence the name Truth or Dare.


== Development ==
Cole said that the first plan for the venture includes launch of fragrance and accessories in 2012. Women's Wear Daily had reported in September 2011 that perfume manufacturing company Coty, Inc. was looking for a possible fragrance deal with Madonna. A press release from the company confirmed the deal and said that the first fragrance for the brand, titled Truth or Dare, will be released in April 2012 exclusively at Macy's in the United States. Global distribution for the product would begin in May 2012. Truth or Dare was confirmed in the press release as a floral perfume, and would be Madonna's first scent to be released. The release also described the blend as a mixture of "narcotic florals, balanced with smells of wood and vanilla." The bottle was described in the release as "playing the Truth or Dare duality – a classic and sophisticated shape, with modern and edgy detailing".
Madonna's inspiration behind the perfume was her late mother. She explained that the oldest memory she cherished about her mother was the perfume she put on. Describing the scent as consisting of gardenias and tuberose, Madonna revealed that she carries that perfume everywhere she goes. To create the particular smell that she had in mind, Madonna collaborated with Stephen Nilsen, who had previously produced fragrances for designers like Tommy Hilfiger, Donna Karan and Tom Ford. After the scent was developed, they believed the finished p