Marathon Man is a 1976 American thriller film directed by John Schlesinger. It was adapted by William Goldman from his 1974 novel of the same title and stars Dustin Hoffman, Laurence Olivier, Roy Scheider, William Devane and Marthe Keller. In the film, "Babe" Levy, a graduate student, becomes embroiled in a plot by Nazi war criminal Christian Szell to retrieve ill-gotten diamonds from a safe deposit box owned by Szell's dead brother. Babe becomes unwittingly involved due to his brother Doc's dealings with Szell. 
The film was a critical and box-office success. Olivier received an Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actor for his role as Szell, the film's antagonist.


== Plot ==

Thomas Babington "Babe" Levy is a history Ph.D. candidate and avid distance runner, researching the same field as his father, who died by suicide after being investigated during the Joseph McCarthy era. Babe's brother, Henry, known as "Doc", poses as an oil company executive, but is actually a government agent working for a secret agency headed by Peter Janeway.
When Klaus Szell, the brother of a Nazi war criminal, is killed in a traffic collision, Doc suspects that the criminal, Dr. Christian Szell, will come to New York to retrieve an immensely valuable trove of looted Holocaust diamonds. Doc comes to New York under the guise of a visit to Babe. Meanwhile, Babe and his new girlfriend, Elsa Opel, who claims to be from Switzerland, are mugged by two men dressed in suits. The same two men greet Szell when he arrives at the airport.
When Doc takes Babe and Elsa to lunch, he tricks Elsa into revealing that she has been lying to Babe about her background. Although Doc suspects she may be connected to Szell, he tells Babe that she is seeking an American husband so she can become a U.S. citizen. After Szell arrives in America, Doc confronts him, stating he is not welcome in the country. Szell accepts the pronouncement, then stabs Doc with a blade concealed in his sleeve. Doc stumbles to Babe's apartment and dies in his brother's arms.
The police interrogate Babe until government agents, led by Janeway, arrive. Janeway asks Babe what Doc told him before he died, and tells Babe that his brother was a U.S. government agent. Babe insists that his brother did not tell him anything, but Janeway is convinced that Doc would not have struggled all the way to Babe's apartment without giving him vital information.
Babe is abducted from his apartment by the two men who mugged him in the park, and he is tortured by Szell. During his torture, Babe is repeatedly asked, "Is it safe?", but he is clueless as to what any of this means. He continues to deny any knowledge. Babe is rescued by Janeway, who explains that Szell is in America to sell a large cache of diamonds he had taken from Jews killed at Auschwitz. Janeway presses Babe about Doc's dying words, but Babe still insists he knows nothing. Frustrated, Janeway reveals himself to be a double agent and returns Babe to Szell. Still unable to extract any details from Babe, Szell drills into one of Babe's healthy teeth, causing excruciating pain. Because Babe still gives no information, Szell concludes Babe has no knowledge and tells the henchmen to dispose of the exhausted student. Babe eventually escapes, aided by his prowess as a marathon runner.
He phones Elsa, who agrees to meet him with a car. Arriving at a country house, Babe guesses that Elsa has set him up, forcing her to confess that the home was owned by Szell's deceased brother. Janeway and Szell's men Karl and Erhard arrive, but Babe takes Elsa hostage. Janeway kills Karl and Erhard as they attempt to shoot Babe. He offers to let Babe kill Szell in revenge for Doc's death if Janeway can have the diamonds. Babe agrees, but as he takes off, Elsa makes an effort to warn Babe of getting shot. Janeway tries to shoot Babe, but he kills Elsa instead. Babe fires through the window and kills Janeway.
Attempting to determine the value of his diamonds, Szell visits an ap