Married to the Mob is a 1988 American crime comedy film directed by Jonathan Demme, and starring Michelle Pfeiffer, Matthew Modine, Dean Stockwell, Mercedes Ruehl, and Alec Baldwin. Pfeiffer plays Angela de Marco, a gangster's widow from Brooklyn, opposite Modine as the undercover FBI agent assigned the task of investigating her mafia connections.
The film was released on August 19, 1988, by Orion Pictures. It earned positive reviews from critics and earned several accolades; Pfeiffer was nominated for a Golden Globe Award for Best Actress – Motion Picture Comedy or Musical, and Stockwell was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor.


== Plot ==
Long Island mafia up-and-comer "Cucumber" Frank de Marco makes a hit on a morning commuter train. Meanwhile, his wife Angela is being gossiped about in the hairdresser’s, as she often avoids socializing with other mob families. She then  backs out of an event one of them is having that night. 
When Angela gets home, she catches her son Joey and another mobster's son swindling neighborhood kids, which she isn't happy about but Frank praises. He then chews her out for passing on Connie's invitation. 
After Joey pulls a gun out of a silverware drawer, Angela and Frank argue. She lists the many reasons why she's unhappy with their life and declares that she wants a divorce, but Frank laughs it off.
Frank gets violently dispatched by his Don Tony "The Tiger" Russo, when he is discovered to be also seeing the latter's mistress Karen. Angela wants to escape the criminal underworld with her son, but is harassed by Tony, who puts the moves on her at Frank's funeral. This clinch earns her the suspicion of FBI agents Mike Downey and Ed Benitez, who are conducting surveillance, and also of Tony's wife Connie, who confronts Angela with accusations of stealing her husband. 
After Tony lavishes Angela and Joey with gifts, they move to a small apartment in the Lower East Side. He has his people track her down there. 
To complicate things, FBI operative Downey is assigned to monitor Angela's movements as part of an undercover surveillance operation. He follows her around the city as she seeks employment, until he goes to wire her apartment.
Downey, going by Mike Smith, sneaks out of Angela's before she can catch him plant a bug. Angela goes to a hairdresser’s and gets a job. Mike bumps into her in her building, and she asks him out. On Friday night, as they are on their date, Tony narrowly escapes a hit across town. 
Connie barges into Angela's looking for Tony but backs off upon finding Mike there. Angela explains to him that she'd tried to break away from the mob but they won't let her. Mike subtly destroys the bugs, as he cannot resist becoming romantically involved with Angela. 
In the morning, Mike's partner Ed gets him to leave, and the FBI raids the hairdresser’s. In their offices, Angela discovers that Mike is Agent Downey. After being threatened with jail, Angela agrees to help the FBI catch Tony.
Angela visits Tony, convincing him she's interested, and gets invited with him on a trip to Miami. The jealous Connie follows, while Downey and Ed get on the same flight as Tony and Angela. Tony recognizes Downey in disguise at the hotel, as he's crossed paths with him a few times. Tony's henchmen bring him up to the suite, but just before they can do away with him and Angela, Connie bursts into the Miami Beach suite. 
After a climactic shootout, Angela punches out Connie and the FBI bursts in. Some time after Tony is convicted for murdering Karen and Frank, Downey convinces Angela to give him a second chance.


== Cast ==

In addition, short cameo appearances include the film's director, Jonathan Demme, as a man getting off an elevator in Miami, and the film's music supervisor, Gary Goetzman, as the guy playing piano when the mobsters gather at the "King's Roost" restaurant.


== Release and reception ==
Married to the Mob received a largely positive response from critics. On Rotten