The Mask is an American comic book series created by Mike Richardson, developed by Doug Mahnke and John Arcudi, and published by Dark Horse Comics. Its artists include Mark Badger, Chris Warner and Keith Williams. The series tells the story of a supernatural mask that grants its wearers nearly limitless power, often at the cost of their sanity. The original trilogy of The Mask, The Mask Returns, and The Mask Strikes Back was published as a limited series, from 1991 to 1995, and has since expanded into various spin-offs and other media, including Itty Bitty Mask and the 2019 main series revival I Pledge Allegiance to the Mask!. The series is known for its dark tone and graphic violence.


== Premise ==
The stories of The Mask revolve around a magical mask which bestows on its wearer reality-bending powers and an altered appearance, characterized by a large set of teeth and a green head. The mask affects the wearer's personality by removing all social and moral inhibitions, causing the wearer to become insane. The character was inspired by a combination of villains from DC Comics, Marvel Comics, and horror movies such as the Joker, the Green Goblin, Freddy Krueger, Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, and Steve Ditko's the Creeper. In the original comics, Stanley Ipkiss wears the mask and becomes a villain. Other characters who wore the Mask became, regardless of their intentions in donning it, cruel antiheroes or murderous, vengeful villains with ultra-violent tendencies. In the 1994 film and the animated series, the Mask had much less predictable effects on its wearer; the main character Stanley Ipkiss is depicted as polite, meek and nebbish, but becomes a brash, confident, thieving, charismatic, dashing 
and still polite supervillain who later on becomes a superhero while wearing the mask, whereas Dorian Tyrell, the main villain, shows no change in personality whatsoever while wearing the mask. The same is true in the 2005 sequel Son of the Mask, whose main character Tim Avery is named after Tex Avery.
The title of the comic book originally referred to the mask itself and not the character it unleashed. In early stories, the character was referred to as Big Head; it was not until the films and television series that the character became known as The Mask.


== Characters ==
The Mask/Big Head – The titular mask is a semi-living entity possessing anyone wearing it and becoming Big Head, be they male or female. As such, it is both the protagonist and antagonist of the series depending on the motivations of its wearer.
Walter – Big Head's arch-enemy - a mute, brutish man who worked for the Mob.
Mitch Kellaway – One of the Mask's archenemies and a police officer who was one of the wearers of the mask.
Stanley Ipkiss – The first person to encounter the Mask.
Kathy Matthews – Also known as Katherine/Kathleen. Stanley's ex-girlfriend and a friend of Mitch, as well as one of the wearers of the mask.
Nunzio – A long-suffering cab driver for the mob who ends up becoming one of the wearers of the Mask who used its powers to seize control of all crime in the city for a time.
Lionel Ray – A police detective and friend of Mitch who encounters the Mask.
Abner Mead – A political candidate who seeks to use the Mask to become the President of the United States.
Ray Turtle – A young homeless man who used the Mask to kill his abusive former foster parents.
Mask Hunters – A group of Neo-Nazis trying to use the Mask for their plans.


== Publication history ==
The base concept of The Mask was created by Mike Richardson on 5 February 1982. It first saw life as a single sketch he drew in 1985 for APA-5, an amateur press publication created by writer Mark Verheiden. After starting Dark Horse Comics, Richardson pitched his concept to Marvel Comics comic book writer/artist Mark Badger. The outcome was the Masque strip that ran in the early issues of Dark Horse Presents. Badger's strips became increasingly political, and Richardson ended the strip to bring the chara