Max Dugan Returns is a 1983 American comedy-drama film written by Neil Simon and directed by Herbert Ross. Starring Jason Robards in the title role along with Marsha Mason and Donald Sutherland, it marks the film debuts of both Sutherland's son Kiefer and Matthew Broderick, and is both the last of five Simon-Ross collaborations and the last of Simon's films starring Mason (his wife at the time).


== Plot ==
In Venice, California, 15-year-old Michael McPhee awakens his mother, Nora, a widowed high school English schoolteacher, who has fallen asleep grading test papers. They venture from their ramshackle house to school in her dilapidated Volvo, which is stolen later that morning. She notifies police detective Brian Costello, who offers to drive her to work; upon arrival, she informs her students that they will have to redo the test they took earlier. Aware that she cannot afford a replacement car, Brian loans her a motorcycle, and spends the evening teaching her how to operate it. Late that night, her estranged father, Max Dugan, who abandoned his family 28 years earlier, appears at her door; he had been imprisoned when she was 9 years old and disappeared after serving 6 years of his sentence. He surprisingly announces his fatal heart condition and offers his estate of $687,000 ($2.1 million today), confessing to stealing the money from a mafia-controlled casino in Las Vegas, Nevada, after its owners appropriated his real estate holdings worth that same amount. The next morning, Max introduces himself to Michael as "Mr. Parker", the new tenant in the guest room. Although Nora corroborates Max’s story, she later questions his alias; he rationalizes his long absence, to which she responds, "Affection would have been enough."
At school, Nora catches Celia, one of her best students, passing answers to her classmate Maria. Nora has conflicted feelings as Celia reveals their relationship as cousins, and the transgression occurred out of family duty. When she and Michael arrive home that afternoon to find new appliances in the kitchen and a modern home entertainment system in Michael's room, Nora angrily demands that Max return the items, which he insists are television game show prizes. Increasingly concerned that Max might corrupt Michael's morals and fearing exposure by either Brian or their meddlesome neighbor Mrs. Litke, she forbids Max from leaving the house. The following afternoon, at a Venice High School baseball game, Nora watches in anguish as Michael strikes out, losing yet another game for the team. Their gloom is compounded upon discovering that Brian's motorcycle has been stolen. However, they find a new Mercedes-Benz sedan in their driveway; she tells Max to return the car, and demands he explain his presence to Michael. Max privately reintroduces himself to Michael as ex-convict "Gus Wittgenstein", cellmate of the late Max Dugan, whose final request was that his grandson inherit his estate and study philosophy at a prominent East Coast university. After finding a diamond necklace on her dressing table, Nora softens her attitude toward her father's largesse, until Michael informs her of Max's latest alias. During a dinner date with Brian, Nora rationalizes her recent acquisitions. Following baseball practice the next day, Chicago White Sox batting coach Charley Lau, paid by Max, introduces himself to Michael and teaches him proper batting technique. After she and Michael return to a complete remodel of their house and a Great Dane named Plato, courtesy of Max, Nora succumbs to her father's generosity. Trailing him to a bank, Brian learns that Max has deposited $400,000 in cash in Nora's name and accuses Nora of being involved in illegal activity, but she feigns outrage and refuses to discuss the matter. 
Nora informs Michael of Max's true identity, then pleads with Max to turn himself in to the police, anticipating leniency because of his poor health. Instead, Max, fearing police might charge Nora as his accomplice, d