McCabe & Mrs. Miller is a 1971 American revisionist Western film directed by Robert Altman and starring Warren Beatty and Julie Christie. The screenplay by Altman and Brian McKay is based on the 1959 novel McCabe by Edmund Naughton. Altman referred to it as an "anti-Western" film because it ignores or subverts a number of Western conventions. It was filmed in British Columbia, Canada in the fall and winter of 1970, and premiered on June 24, 1971.
The film has received critical acclaim in the years since its release and earned an Oscar nomination for Christie in the Best Actress category. The film was deemed the 8th greatest Western of all time by the American Film Institute in its AFI's 10 Top 10 list in 2008 and, in 2010, was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically or aesthetically significant".


== Plot ==
In 1902, a mysterious gambler named John McCabe arrives in the unincorporated boomtown of Presbyterian Church, Washington, named after its only substantial building, a tall but mostly unused chapel. McCabe quickly takes a dominant position over the town's simple-minded and lethargic inhabitants, thanks to his aggressive personality and persistent rumors that he is actually a notorious gunfighter known as "Pudgy" McCabe.
To support himself, McCabe establishes a makeshift brothel, consisting of three prostitutes purchased for $200 from a pimp in the nearby town of Bearpaw. British cockney madam Constance Miller arrives and persuades McCabe to let her manage his brothel while he focuses on running a gambling hall. The two become financially successful business partners, turning their small business into the largest in town, and a romantic relationship develops between the two, though she charges him for sex.
As the town becomes richer, Sears and Hollander, a pair of agents from the Harrison Shaughnessy Mining Company in Bearpaw, arrive to buy out McCabe's business, as well as the surrounding zinc mines. Harrison Shaughnessy is notorious for having people killed when they refuse to sell. McCabe does not want to sell at their initial price of $5,500 but overplays his hand in negotiations by demanding too high an asking price. The agents leave in disgust, and Miller warns him that they will not return to negotiate and that his life is in danger.
Hired guns Butler, Breed and Kid arrive in town with a contract to kill McCabe. Appearing fearful, McCabe relents and agrees to sell. Butler refuses to parlay, declaring that McCabe is a fraud and has never killed anyone in his life. McCabe goes back to Bearpaw to find the agents, but after learning that neither are still around, he visits a lawyer, Clement Samuels, in the hopes of resolving the dispute peacefully. The lawyer, an aspiring politician, boosts McCabe's confidence and convinces him not to give in by arguing that he can set an example by standing up to Harrison Shaughnessy.
McCabe returns to town and tries to hide in the chapel, but the pastor grabs his shotgun and chases him out before being fatally shot by Butler. A broken lantern starts a fire in the church and the townspeople rush to help extinguish it. McCabe manages to kill Breed and the Kid in ambushes, but the Kid is able to wound him before dying. As the townsfolk mobilize to fight the chapel fire, McCabe is gunned down by Butler, using a hunting rifle; as Butler attempts to verify the kill, McCabe pulls a derringer and kills him. As the townspeople celebrate extinguishing the fire, McCabe dies alone in the snow, while Mrs. Miller lies sedated in an opium den.


== Cast ==
Credits from American Film Institute:


== Production ==


=== Development ===
McCabe & Mrs. Miller is based on Edmund Naughton's 1959 novel McCabe. David Foster, one of the film's producers, had purchased the film rights to the novel in 1968; he'd learned of the novel while negotiating with Ellen Wright (the widow of novelist Richard Wright) over the right