Meet Joe Black is a 1998 American romantic fantasy mystery film directed and produced by Martin Brest, starring Brad Pitt, Anthony Hopkins, and Claire Forlani. Celebrating his 65th birthday, businessman and devoted family man Bill Parrish is visited by Death, who wants to know what it's like to be human in return for giving Bill extra days of his life. The screenplay was written by Bo Goldman, Kevin Wade, Ron Osborn, and Jeff Reno, and is loosely based on the 1934 film Death Takes a Holiday, an adaptation of the 1924 Italian play La morte in vacanza by Alberto Casella.


== Plot ==
Media mogul Bill Parrish is contemplating a merger with another media giant. Meanwhile, his eldest daughter, Allison, is planning an elaborate 65th birthday party for him. His younger daughter Susan, a resident in internal medicine, has a relationship with Drew, a member of Bill's board.
As Bill contemplates Susan's planned marriage to Drew and realizes that she is not deeply in love, he suggests she wait to be swept off of her feet. When the company helicopter lands, he hears a mysterious voice, which he tries to ignore. Arriving in his office, Bill has pains in his chest and hears the voice again, saying, "Yes."
While studying in a coffee shop, Susan meets a vibrant young man, and they form a connection. Stunned, she departs without getting his name. Unbeknownst to her, directly afterward, he is struck fatally by multiple cars.
That evening, Bill hears the voice again and it summons him to a room. Materializing, the voice identifies itself as "Death" and now inhabits the young man's body. Death explains that Bill's impassioned speech to his daughter piqued his interest. Given Bill's "competence, experience, and wisdom", Death says that for as long as Bill will be his guide on Earth, Bill will not have to die. They both return to the dinner table and under pressure to make an introduction, Bill creates an impromptu name for the young man, introducing him to the family as "Joe Black." Joe Black does not seem to know how to drink or eat, or how to use food and utensils. He, however, learns to adapt. 
Bill fails to keep events from going out of his control. Drew secretly conspires with Parrish Communications, capitalizing on Bill's strange behavior and reliance on Joe to convince the board of directors to vote Bill out as chairman. Using information from Bill's son-in-law, Quince, Drew pushes for merger approval which Bill now opposes.
Intrigued by Joe's naivete, Susan realizes he is different from the young man she met in the coffee shop. She falls deeply in love, while Joe is now under the influence of human desires and an attraction to her, and they have sex. Later, Bill sees them kissing.
Bill angrily confronts Joe about his relationship with Susan. He then suggests to Susan that Joe will not  be around much longer. At Susan's hospital, Joe interacts with a terminally ill woman, who wishes to die to escape her constant physical pain. She realizes that Joe is part of her impending death. When Joe mentions that he loves Susan (whose care she is under), they discuss the meaning of life and she helps him understand the danger of meshing two worlds. When Joe asks if she is ready to go, she accedes and dies.
As Bill's birthday arrives, Joe declares his intention to take Susan with him. Bill pleads with Joe to recognize the meaning of true love, and to not steal Susan's life. 
At the party, knowing his death is imminent, Bill makes peace with his daughters. Susan tells Joe she has loved him since the day in the coffee shop. Joe, realizing Susan loves the man in the coffee shop and not him, decides to allow her to live. 
Quince apologizes to Bill for undermining the company, and Bill forgives him. Joe helps Bill regain control of his company, exposing Drew's underhanded business dealings to the board by claiming to be an agent of the Internal Revenue Service and threatening to put Drew in jail.
Susan and Bill later say goodbye. Fireworks begin, and on a h