Meet the Parents is a 2000 American romantic comedy film written by Jim Herzfeld and John Hamburg and directed by Jay Roach. It chronicles a series of unfortunate events that befall a good-hearted but hapless nurse (Ben Stiller as Greg Focker) while visiting his girlfriend's parents (Robert De Niro and Blythe Danner as Jack and Dina Byrnes). In addition, Teri Polo stars as Pam Byrnes (Greg's girlfriend) while Owen Wilson stars as Kevin Rawley (Pam's ex-boyfriend).
The film is a remake of a 1992 film of the same name directed by Greg Glienna and produced by Jim Vincent. Glienna – who also played the original film's protagonist – and Mary Ruth Clarke cowrote the screenplay. Universal Pictures purchased the rights to Glienna's film with the intent of creating a new version. Jim Herzfeld expanded the original script but development was halted for some time. Jay Roach read the expanded script and expressed his desire to direct it but Universal declined him. At that time, Steven Spielberg was interested in doing so while Jim Carrey was interested in playing the lead role. The studio only offered the film to Roach once Spielberg and Carrey left the project.
Released in the United States and Canada on October 6, 2000 and distributed by Universal Pictures, the film earned back its initial budget of $55 million in only 11 days. It went on to become one of the highest-grossing films of 2000, earning over $165 million in North America and over $330 million worldwide. It was well received by film critics and viewers alike, winning several awards and earning additional nominations. Ben Stiller won two comedy awards for his performance and the film was chosen as the Favorite Comedy Motion Picture at the 2001 People's Choice Awards. The success of the film inspired two sequels, namely Meet the Fockers and Little Fockers released in 2004 and 2010, respectively. It also inspired a reality television show titled Meet My Folks and a sitcom titled In-Laws, both of which debuted on NBC in 2002.


== Plot ==
Greg Focker, a Jewish American nurse living in Chicago, intends to propose to his girlfriend, Pam Byrnes. He chooses to get her father's blessing at her sister Debbie's wedding at their parents' house on Long Island, and plans to propose to her in front of her family. This plan is put on hold when the airline company loses his luggage, which contains the engagement ring.
At the Byrnes's, Greg meets Pam's father Jack, mother Dina, and beloved cat Jinx. Despite displaying a friendly demeanor towards Greg, Jack is immediately suspicious of him and is critical of his choice of career as a nurse. Greg gifts Jack an extremely rare flower, but he does not recognize it, although he's a 'retired florist'. 
Greg becomes even more uncomfortable after he receives an impromptu lie detector test from Jack. Pam explains that Jack's profession as a florist is a cover, and he is actually a retired CIA operative who interrogated double agents.
Meeting the rest of Pam's family and friends, including Debbie's future in-laws, Greg still feels like an outsider. He also becomes insecure about his relationship with Pam when he learns she was previously engaged. Her ex-fiancé Kevin is amiable, handsome, wealthy, and still on friendly terms with her. He is also the Best Man in Debbie's wedding. 
Despite efforts to impress her family, Greg's inadvertent actions make him an easy target for ridicule. Greg unintentionally gives Debbie a broken nose and a black eye during a pool volleyball game, floods the backyard with sewage, breaks an urn containing the ashes of Jack's mother, and sets the wedding altar on fire. Jack suspects Greg is a marijuana user after he endorses the marijuana interpretation of "Puff, the Magic Dragon". When Jack catches Pam's brother Denny with a marijuana pipe, Denny hastily claims he found it in Greg's luggage.
Greg loses Jinx, so temporarily replaces him with a near-identical stray, whose tail he spray-paints and who makes a mess of the house and 