The Messenger: The Story of Joan of Arc (French: Jeanne d'Arc) is a 1999 English-language French epic historical drama film directed by Luc Besson and starring Milla Jovovich, John Malkovich, Faye Dunaway and Dustin Hoffman. The screenplay was written by Besson and Andrew Birkin, and the original score was composed by Éric Serra.
The Messenger portrays the story of Joan of Arc, the French war heroine and religious martyr of the Hundred Years War. It begins with young Joan as she witnesses the atrocities of the English against her family, and she has visions that inspire her to lead the French in battle against the occupying English. Her success in routing the English allows Charles VII to take the throne. Eventually, Joan is captured by the English, tried and executed for heresy.
Besson's previous film, The Fifth Element, which also stars Jovovich, was a critical and financial success, and had a positive influence on both of their careers. The Messenger was intended to follow that success and cement Besson's and Jovovich's status in film. However, it received mixed reviews and underperformed at the box office, earning just under $67 million on a $60 million budget.


== Plot ==
As a child, Joan of Arc had a violent and supernatural vision. She returns home to find her village burning. Her older sister, Catherine, tries to protect her by hiding her from the attacking English forces. While hiding, Joan witnesses the brutal murder and rape of her sister. In shock, Joan is taken in by distant relatives.
Several years later in Chinon, the Dauphin and soon to be King of France, Charles VII, receives a message from the now-teenager Joan, asking him to provide an army to lead into battle against the occupying English. After meeting him and his mother-in-law Yolande of Aragon, she describes her visions. Desperate, he believes her prophecy.
Clad in armour, Joan leads the French armies to the besieged city of Orléans. She gives the English a chance to surrender, which they refuse. The armies' commanders, skeptical of Joan's leadership, initiate the next morning's battle to take over the stockade at St. Loup without her. By the time she arrives on the battlefield, the French soldiers are retreating. Joan ends the retreat and leads another charge, successfully capturing the fort. They proceed to the enemy stronghold called the Tourelles. Joan gives the English another chance to surrender, but they refuse. She leads the French attack on the Tourelles, although the English defenders inflict heavy casualties, severely wounding Joan. Nevertheless, Joan leads a second attack the following day, and the stronghold is captured. As the English army regroups, the French army moves to face them across an open field. Joan rides alone toward the English and offers them a final chance to surrender and return to England. The English accept her offer and retreat.
Joan returns to Reims to witness the coronation of Charles VII of France. Her military campaigns continue to the walls of Paris, although she does not receive her requested reinforcements, and the siege is a failure. Joan asks King Charles VII for another army, but he refuses, saying he now prefers diplomacy over warfare. Believing she threatens his position and will require the expenditure of treasure, Charles conspires to get rid of Joan by having her captured by enemy forces. She is taken prisoner by the pro-English Burgundians at Compiègne, who sell her to the English. The English then held a trial in Rouen while placing her in shackles.
Based on her claim of visions and signs from God, she is tried for heresy in an ecclesiastical court proceeding. The English wish to quickly condemn and execute Joan, for English soldiers are afraid to fight while she remains alive, based on their belief that she can supernaturally affect battles while in prison. Bishop Cauchon expresses his fear of wrongfully executing someone who might have received visions from God. Convicted, Joan is distraught that she w