Midnight Cowboy is a 1965 novel by James Leo Herlihy that chronicles the naïve Texan Joe Buck's odyssey from Texas to New York City, where he plans on realizing his dream of becoming a male prostitute servicing rich women.


== Plot ==
The book opens with would-be gigolo Joe Buck leaving Houston to seek his fortune back east, chasing his dream of becoming a hustler for sex-starved rich ladies in New York City. Dim-witted, naïve, but strapping and handsome, Joe has spent the past two years cultivating a cowboy persona and saving up his dishwashing wages for a brand new cowboy wardrobe.
The book recounts the events of his life that lead up to this point. Born out of wedlock, Joe is abandoned by his mother at the age of 7. He is raised in Albuquerque by his grandmother, Sally Buck, a flirty blonde hairdresser who takes care of his needs but emotionally neglects him in favor of an endless string of boyfriends. One of those boyfriends, the cowboy Woodsy Niles, is the closest thing Joe has to a father figure, but he too exits Joe's life forever once his relationship with Sally ends. Joe grows up profoundly isolated and lonely, desperately wanting but clueless on how to form connections with other people.
When Joe is 17, he loses his virginity to Anastasia Pratt, a promiscuous schoolgirl who regularly took on six boys at a time in a movie theater storeroom, each boy patiently waiting in line for his turn. Joe is the first boy she enjoys having sex with, leading to a secret relationship that is squelched when one of the other boys alerts Annie's father to her sexual activities out of jealousy. Annie is swiftly institutionalized, and the unsavory rumors surrounding Joe's involvement only serve to depress and alienate him. 
In the following years, he has occasional brief sexual dalliances with both men and women in the hopes of securing their friendship, but they are only ever interested in his body. He drifts aimlessly into his 20s, jobless, friendless, and idle, still living with and supported by his grandmother.
Joe is drafted into the US Army at the age of 23. For the first time in his life he finds camaraderie and acceptance, if not outright friendship. Tragically, Sally Buck dies in a horseback accident toward the end of Joe's enlistment. He suffers a nervous breakdown at the loss of the only real human connection in his life.
Discharged from the army, unmoored, and consumed by grief, Joe decides to leave Albuquerque for Houston. There, he attracts the attention of a local male hustler named Perry. Joe's simple delight at having attention paid to him by a cool new friend is misinterpreted by Perry as a reciprocation of sexual attraction. Perry takes Joe to a hotel room, gives him marijuana for the first time, and attempts to initiate a sexual encounter. Instead, the drugs cause Joe to suffer an existential crisis, and he babbles tearfully on the floor about his desire to have a blonde wife to fawn over him and take care of all his needs.
An annoyed Perry takes Joe to a Tex-Mex brothel run by a grotesque madam and her sexually deviant son. Joe is thrilled by this apparent gesture of friendship, though it's implied that Perry intends the trip as a punishment for having been led on. As Joe is having tender and spirited sex with a prostitute, he catches the others spying on him through a hidden room. He attacks Perry, but is then assaulted and raped by the madam's son.
Joe is deeply traumatized by the attack and by Perry's betrayal. He resolves to harness all his anger to reinvent himself and focus on a goal, inspired by an offhand comment made by the brothel madam: He will become a hustling cowboy and seek his fortune in New York City, servicing the legions of sex-starved society women waiting for him there. 
Joe Buck arrives in New York by bus and checks into a hotel. Initially unsuccessful, he manages to bed a middle-aged woman, Cass, in her posh Park Avenue apartment. But the encounter ends badly: He ends up giving her money after