Midnight Run is a 1988 American action comedy film directed by Martin Brest, written by George Gallo, and starring Robert De Niro and Charles Grodin. Yaphet Kotto, John Ashton, Dennis Farina, Joe Pantoliano, and Philip Baker Hall play supporting roles.
At the 46th Golden Globe Awards, the film was nominated for Best Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy and Best Actor for De Niro. A critical and commercial success, the film was followed by The Midnight Run Action Pack in 1994, three made for television sequels which did not feature any of the principal actors, although a few characters are carried over from the first film.


== Plot ==
Bounty hunter Jack Walsh is enlisted by bail bondsman Eddie Moscone to find accountant Jonathan Mardukas and bring him to Los Angeles. Mardukas had embezzled $15 million from Chicago mob boss Jimmy Serrano before skipping on the $450,000 bail Moscone had posted for him. Moscone demands Walsh to bring Mardukas back within 5 days. Walsh demands $100,000 in return, despite Moscone's assurance that the job is easy, a "midnight run". Walsh is then approached by FBI Special Agent Alonzo Mosely, who needs Mardukas to be a witness against Serrano. Mosely orders Walsh to stay away from Mardukas.
Walsh ignores Mosely's order and steals Mosely's ID, which he uses to pass himself off as an FBI agent along his journey. Serrano's henchmen offer Walsh $1 million to turn Mardukas over to them, but Walsh declines. Walsh captures Mardukas in New York City and calls Moscone from the airport, unaware that Moscone's line is being tapped by the FBI and that his assistant, Jerry, is secretly tipping off Serrano's men. Mardukas tells Walsh that he has a fear of flying; Walsh does not believe Mardukas until they get on the plane and Mardukas fakes a panic attack, forcing them to travel by train. When they fail to show up in Los Angeles on time, Moscone sends bounty hunter Marvin Dorfler, a rival of Walsh, to find them.
Dorfler finds the pair in Pittsburgh and attempts to take Mardukas from Walsh, but Walsh gets the drop on him and leaves the train with Mardukas. Walsh then attempts to purchase bus tickets with his credit card, only to discover that Dorfler has canceled it. Without funds, Walsh is forced to rely on other means to get across the country, including stealing cars, taking a bus in Fremont, Ohio, and hitchhiking from Amarillo, Texas.
Meanwhile, Mosely leads a task force to find Walsh and Mardukas after hearing of the skirmish on the train. While alone with Mardukas, Walsh reveals that ten years ago, he worked as an undercover officer in Chicago, trying to get close to a drug dealer who had almost the entire department on his payroll. Just as Walsh was going to bust the dealer, corrupt cops planted heroin in his house. To avoid both going to prison and working for the dealer, Walsh resigned and became a bounty hunter. His wife divorced him and married a corrupt lieutenant; however, Walsh still clings to the vain hope that his ex-wife will reunite with him.
Later, Mardukas learns that the drug dealer was Serrano. In Sedona, Arizona, Dorfler takes Mardukas away from Walsh, who is subsequently found by Mosely. While arguing with Moscone over the phone, Walsh realizes that Dorfler intends to turn Mardukas over to Serrano. However, Dorfler inadvertently reveals to Serrano's men where Mardukas is; they knock him unconscious and go after Mardukas themselves.
Walsh bluffs Serrano's men that he has computer disks created by Mardukas with enough information to put Serrano away, but promises to hand them over if Serrano hands Mardukas over unharmed. He then makes a deal with Mosely to deliver Serrano to the FBI in exchange for being allowed to take Mardukas back to Los Angeles. Walsh meets up with Serrano while wearing a wire and being watched by the FBI. Dorfler spots Mardukas and interrupts the exchange, unknowingly disabling the wire. After Serrano takes the disks, the FBI agents close in and arrest Serrano and his hench