Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil is a 1997 American mystery thriller film directed and produced by Clint Eastwood and starring John Cusack and Kevin Spacey. The screenplay by John Lee Hancock was based on John Berendt's 1994 book of the same name and follows the story of antiques dealer Jim Williams, on trial for the killing of a male prostitute who was his lover. The multiple trials depicted in Berendt's book are combined into one trial for the film.
Several real-life locals appear in the movie, notably in the Christmas party scene at Mercer House, including Williams' sister, Dorothy Kingery, and nieces Susan and Amanda, as well as Georgia senator John R. "Jack" Riley (his wife was played by Mary Alice Hendrix). Filming was permitted inside Mercer House, but action scenes and those in the courtroom were filmed later on a soundstage at Warner Bros.
Three people — The Lady Chablis, Emma Kelly and Jerry Spence — play themselves, while Sonny Seiler, one of Williams' lawyers in the book, plays Judge Samuel L. White. Danny Hansford, the shooting victim in the book, is renamed Billy Hanson in the film and is portrayed by a 24-year-old Jude Law, in one of his early film roles.
The on-location scenes were shot in Savannah, Georgia.


== Plot ==

The panoramic tale of Savannah's eccentricities focuses on a deadly shooting and the subsequent trial of Jim Williams, a self-made man, art collector, antiques dealer, bon vivant, and semi-closeted homosexual. John Kelso, a magazine reporter from New York with one book—Before the Fall—to his name, flies to Savannah, amid beautiful architecture and odd doings, to write a feature for Town & Country on one of Williams' famous Christmas parties. Williams' parties, held at his Mercer House home, were the highlight of many people's social calendars. Williams had an "in" box and an "out" box for his invitations, depending on whether or not the person was in Williams' favor at the time.

After being unable to find a taxi at Savannah/Hilton Head Airport, Kelso gets a ride to Jones Street from a tour-bus driver.
After a tour of Savannah's tourist hotspots, Kelso alights at Forsyth Park. Making his way to his lodging in Monterey Square, he has a brief interaction with Billy Hanson in front of Mercer House.
Kelso visits the Armstrong Mansion offices of Sonny Seiler, Williams' attorney. Seiler introduces Kelso to Williams, and they take Seiler's dog, Uga IV, for a walk through Forsyth Park. Williams then shows Kelso the carriage house behind Mercer House where he does his restorations. Kelso recognizes the c. 1765 painting Newmarket Heath, with a Rubbing-down House by George Stubbs. Williams reveals he will be auctioning the painting at the party the following night.
Awoken by Mandy Nichols, who is looking for some ice to take back to her partner Joe Odom's party, Kelso accompanies her back to the festivities. There, he meets hairdresser Jerry Spence and Odom, who is playing the piano. 
Kelso is guest of honor at the party, for which Williams sent Kelso his tuxedo earlier in the evening. The party's caterer Lucille Wright meets Kelso, who let himself in. She shows Kelso the food that will be on offer for the evening. Kelso also meets Emma Kelly, named the "Lady of 6,000 Songs" by Savannah's own Johnny Mercer, Harry Cram, the former silent-film actress Serena Dawes and Williams' mother, Blanche. Williams shows Kelso his organ in the upstairs ballroom. It is there that Billy Hanson appears, having let himself in the servants' entrance. Hanson demands some money from Williams so that he can "get fucked up". Williams refuses, saying Hanson gets paid on Friday like everyone else. Hanson responds by smashing a bottle and threatening both Williams and Kelso with it, before storming out. After explaining Hanson's situation to Kelso, Williams sits down and plays "Jeepers Creepers" on the organ, demonstrating that he uses it to drown out the sound of his neighbour Lorne Atwell's dog.

After the guests have le