Infra-Man (Chinese: 中國超人, lit. Chinese Superman), also titled The Super Inframan, is a 1975 Hong Kong science fiction Superhero action film produced by the Shaw Brothers Studio. Inspired by the huge success of the Japanese tokusatsu franchises such as Ultraman and Kamen Rider in Hong Kong, this film features the same type of "henshin"/transformation, monster/robot fights, and Chinese kung fu action.


== Plot ==
The story recounts that in 2015, Demon Princess Elzebub (also translated as Princess Dragon Mom) awakens from 10 million years of dormancy and plots to conquer the Earth. She destroys a few major cities in China to prove her power to humanity, who react in shock. Returning to her lair in Inner-Earth, she awakens her army of Skeleton Ghosts and various mutant humanoids to wreak havoc on the surface.
In the story, the head of the Science Headquarters, Professor Liu Ying-de, has completed the BDX Project, a potential countermeasure against Elzebub. In the HQ's secret laboratory, he transforms Lei Ma, a high-ranking SH officer, into the bionic kung fu superhero Inframan. The solar-powered red & silver armored Inframan has both enhanced strength and combat weapons.
Once Inframan destroys the Princess’s various monsters, she decides to steal the professor's blueprints of Inframan in hope of discovering his weakness. Meanwhile, the professor introduces Thunderball Fists, gloves capable of destroying any substance known to man, as well as covering up Inframan's weakness. The princess decides to coerce the professor. Capturing the professor's daughter, the princess blackmails the professor into creating an Inframan for her. The professor agrees to go to Mount Devil for a meeting. When the professor refuses to make another Inframan, he and his daughter are frozen. Inframan and the Science Patrol decide to rescue both,  leading to the final battle between Inframan and Demon Princess Elzebub.


== Powers of Inframan ==
Lei Ma throws his arms into a Kamen Rider-like "henshin"/transforming pose, and says:

"Change! Inframan!" (變！超人) (Mandarin: "Bian! Chao Ren", Cantonese: "Bin! Chiu Yan")
His powers and attacks are (Mandarin/Cantonese):

噴火彈 (Pen Huo Dan/Pan Fo Daan) Erupting Bullet(s)
The missiles stored below Inframan's ribs. He throws them like darts, and they can also thaw him out when he is frozen.
太陽甲 (Tai Yang Jia/Taai Yeung Gaap) Solar Armor (a.k.a.: Sun Ja)
The stream of light that Inframan shoots from his wrists when crossing them together like Ultraman's Spacium Light Ray.
追魂腿 (Zhui Hun Tui/Jeui Wan Teui) Guided Kick (literally "Chase Soul Leg")
Inframan's kick attack. This can also locate its targeted enemy like a guided missile.
能量發揮 (Neng Liang Fa Hui/Nang Leung Faat Fai) Capacity Transmission (literally "Energy Emission")
Inframan activates his backup power source, in case of lack of solar power.
閃電拳 (Shan Dian Quan/Sim Din Kyun) Flashing Thunder Fists (a.k.a.: Thunder Fists, Thunderball Fists)
Later attachments for Inframan; shiny black and metallic gloves that go over his regular ones. They also shoot right off his fists and retract again, much like Mazinger Z's Rocket Punch. They also have the following weapons:
死光刀 (Si Guang Dao/Sei Gwong Dou) Deadly Light Blades
The red moon-shaped energy blades that stream from the Flashing Thunder Fists.
雷電光 (Lei Dian Guang/Leui Din Gwong) Thunder and Lightning Aura
Like the Solar Armor, but more powerful.
Inframan also has the power to grow to gigantic size, similar to Ultraman's power to change size.


== Cast ==


=== Protagonists ===
Danny Lee as Lei Ma/Inframan (雷馬/中國超人), the hero
Wang Hsieh as Professor Liu Ying-de (劉英徳), the proprietor of Science Headquarters
Yuan Man-Tzu as Liu Mei-mei (美美), the Professor's daughter
Lu Sheng as Xiao Hu (小虎) Mei Mei's younger brother
Lin-lin (琳琳) Mei Mei's little sister. Played by Fanny Leung
Zhu Qi-quang (朱啓光) The lieutenant of Science Headquarters. Played by Kong Yeung
Lu Xiao-long (呂小龍) The sergeant of Science Headquarters and a tough