Mighty Joe Young is a 1998 American epic adventure film based on the 1949 film of the same name about a giant mountain gorilla brought to a wildlife preserve in Los Angeles by a young woman who raised him, and a zoologist, to protect him from the threat of poachers until one seeks Joe out in order to take his revenge. It was directed by Ron Underwood and stars Bill Paxton, Charlize Theron, Rade Šerbedžija, Naveen Andrews, Regina King and David Paymer. Creature suit actor John Alexander plays the title character. In this version, the ape is much larger than in the original. The film received mixed reviews and grossed $50.6 million in the United States against a production budget of $90 million, making it a box-office bomb.


== Plot ==
As a child, Jill Young and her mother, Ruth Young, a primatologist, observe and study mountain gorillas in the Pangani Mountains in Central Africa, including an infant gorilla whom Jill names Joe and his mother. One evening, a group of poachers led by Andrei Strasser storm the mountains and Kweli, Ruth's friend, alerts her to the men as she is putting Jill to bed. Ruth heads into the mountains, and Jill follows shortly afterward. Strasser shoots and kills both Joe’s and Jill's mothers and when he tries to capture Joe, Joe bites off his trigger finger and thumb, causing him to swear revenge on the little gorilla. Before Ruth dies, she has Jill promise to protect Joe.  
Twelve years later, Joe has now grown to a height of 15 feet (4.6 m) tall and weighing 2,000 pounds (910 kg). As a result, other gorillas will not accept him and he is still vulnerable to poachers. Gregg O'Hara, a wildlife refuge director working at an animal conservatory in Los Angeles convinces Jill that they would be safer if they relocated there.
At the conservatory, the trio win the hearts of the refuge staff, who put Jill in charge of Joe. Jill meets Strasser, who now runs a fraudulent animal preserve in Botswana, while secretly selling animal organs on the black market, and is eager for revenge after seeing Joe featured on a news report. At first, Jill does not recognize him, since his right hand is concealed in his coat pocket. Strasser attempts to convince Jill that Joe would be better off in his wildlife refuge back in Africa. During a gala, Strasser's henchman Garth uses a poacher's noisemaker to scare Joe into a frenzy. Joe trashes the gala, with the intention of attacking Strasser, but is captured, and imprisoned in a concrete bunker.
When Jill discovers that Joe may be euthanized as he is perceived as a danger to the public, she accepts Strasser's offer. She and the refuge staff smuggle Joe out in a truck, still not knowing Strasser's true colors. Before their departure, Gregg, who has fallen in love with Jill, kisses her goodbye. Shortly after Jill leaves, the maintenance workers come in with the poacher's noisemaker that they found while cleaning up the gala, making Gregg realize Jill and Joe are in danger and he drives after them.
On the way to the airport, Jill notices the half-glove covering Strasser's missing fingers and recognizes him. She fights Strasser and Garth, then jumps from the truck onto Hollywood Boulevard, leading to several automobile accidents. Joe sees her and tilts the truck over onto its side and flees, wreaking havoc in the Hollywood city and being chased by helicopters, before arriving at a carnival at the Santa Monica Pier.
Gregg finds Jill, who tells him of Strasser's intentions and her history with him. They track Joe to the carnival where he is playfully wreaking havoc. Strasser, determined to prevent Jill from exposing him, arrives and attempts to shoot her. But Garth, appalled at Strasser's ruthlessness, turns against him and shoves the gun away from Jill, causing Strasser to misfire at a spotlight, which starts a fire that quickly spreads to many game stands and the Ferris Wheel. Gregg helps evacuate its riders, but the wheel breaks down, leaving a young boy named Jason stranded at the t