The Minus Man is a 1999 thriller film starring Owen Wilson and Janeane Garofalo. It is based on the novel by Lew McCreary, and directed by Hampton Fancher, who also wrote the screenplay. The film centers on a serial killer whom Fancher describes as "a cross between Psycho's Norman Bates, Melville's Billy Budd and Being There's Chauncey Gardner".


== Plot ==
Vann Siegert is a wandering serial killer who poisons his victims; he explains that he feels he is helping them and that they die without pain. After killing a heroin addict named Casper he met at a bar, he makes her death look like an overdose and moves to a new town. The next day, he arrives at the home of Doug and Jane Durwin and rents out the room of their missing daughter. Doug recommends he look for work at the post office, as they are hiring seasonal help for Christmas.
Doug takes Vann to a high school football game, where he meets Gene, a star athlete, and his family. A few days later, Vann offers the boy a ride and murders him, burying his body on a beach. While he is digging the grave, Vann has an imaginary conversation with two detectives, Blair and Graves, who ask taunting questions about his methods. Later, Vann helps the town search for the missing athlete and even attends his memorial service. He reveals that killing Gene broke two of his personal rules: don't kill anyone you know, and don't kill anyone from your town. Vann's ties to the community grow as he is given more responsibility at the post office.
One of Vann's co-workers, Ferrin, sheepishly pursues him. Vann drives her to the beach, where the pair exchange an awkward hug directly over the spot where Vann buried Gene. On Christmas Day, Vann goes to a diner and chooses another victim. She invites him to her home, where he sees that she is a painter. Something about her work disturbs him and he flees. Vann returns to the diner and slips poison into the water of a man eating alone. An autopsy reveals that the death was the result of a rare poison derived from tree bark fungus found in the Pacific Northwest. The poison is then linked to Casper's death, and to Gene's when his body is found. Vann knows that the police will eventually tie the murders to him. While looking in the mirror, he pulls hairs off his jacket and puts them in an envelope on which he writes 'FERRiN'.
Jane is found dead from a blow to the back of the head. The police suspect Doug, but Vann is worried that the increased scrutiny from another murder will lead the police to him. During a date with Ferrin, he tries to initiate sex by assaulting her. She is terrified, and Vann leaves. The next day, the police arrest Doug for Jane's murder. Vann packs his things. Before he leaves town, he puts his postal uniform and the envelope marked "FERRiN", containing the sample of his hair, in a mailbox. While he's leaving it all behind, the film ends as he drives on the highway, only by saying that he wants to lead a more regular life once he gets to wherever he is going. He is pursued by a cop who had earlier approached him on the beach. After taking a good look at him in the middle of her spotlight with her police cruiser, she smiles at him and takes the right fork in the road, while Vann takes the left.


== Cast ==
Owen Wilson as  Vann Siegert
Dwight Yoakam as  Detective Blair
Dennis Haysbert as  Detective Graves
Alex Warren as  State Trooper
Mercedes Ruehl as  Jane Durwin
Brian Cox as  Doug Durwin
Janeane Garofalo as  Ferrin
Meg Foster as  Irene
John Vargas as Priest
Eric Mabius as Gene
Larry Miller as Paul
Sheryl Crow as  Casper
John Carroll Lynch as Bartender (first scene)


== Reception ==
The film has a 58% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on 36 reviews. The site’s critics consensus states: "While its subdued thrills and lack of answers may prove frustrating, The Minus Man delivers a chillingly measured performance from Owen Wilson."
Roger Ebert called the film "a psychological thriller of uncommon power maybe because it's so quiet a