Mission: Impossible – Dead Reckoning Part One is a 2023 American spy action film directed by Christopher McQuarrie from a screenplay he co-wrote with Erik Jendresen. It is the sequel to Mission: Impossible – Fallout (2018) and the seventh installment in the Mission: Impossible film series. It stars Tom Cruise as Ethan Hunt, alongside an ensemble cast including Hayley Atwell, Ving Rhames, Simon Pegg, Rebecca Ferguson, Vanessa Kirby, Esai Morales, Pom Klementieff, Mariela Garriga, and Henry Czerny. In the film, Hunt and his IMF team face off against the Entity, a powerful rogue AI.
In January 2019, Cruise announced the next two Mission: Impossible films would be shot back-to-back, with McQuarrie writing and directing both. Returning and new cast members were announced soon after, and Lorne Balfe, who composed the score for Fallout, returned to score. Filming began in Italy in February 2020 but was halted due to the COVID-19 pandemic. It resumed later that year and wrapped in September 2021, with other filming locations including Norway, the United Kingdom, and the United Arab Emirates. It is the first film in the series since Mission: Impossible 2 (2000) not to involve J. J. Abrams and the first film in the series to not be produced by Abrams's Bad Robot since Mission: Impossible III (2006). With an estimated budget of $291 million, it is one of the most expensive films ever made.
Dead Reckoning Part One premiered on the Spanish Steps in Rome on June 19, 2023, and was theatrically released in the United States on July 12, 2023, by Paramount Pictures. The film received critical acclaim and grossed over $567.5 million worldwide. Due to its overall budget and competition from the "Barbenheimer" cultural phenomenon, it underperformed at the box office. 
At the 96th Academy Awards, the film was nominated for two Academy Awards. It earned two nominations at the 77th British Academy Film Awards and four nominations at the 51st Saturn Awards. A sequel is set to be released in 2025.


== Plot ==
The Sevastopol, a next-generation Russian stealth submarine, employs an advanced AI, which is activated by a two-piece cruciform key. The AI becomes sentient and goes rogue. It deceives the crew into attacking a phantom target, only to be struck by their own torpedo, killing all aboard. IMF agent Ethan Hunt travels to the Empty Quarter of the Arabian Desert and successfully retrieves a key piece from Ilsa Faust, a disavowed MI6 agent, and also fakes her death to ensure she survives a bounty placed by an unknown source. Back in Washington, D.C., Ethan infiltrates a U.S. Intelligence Community briefing for Director of National Intelligence Denlinger discussing the rogue AI. They give it the title, the Entity for its sentience and defiance. CIA Director Eugene Kittridge states that the Entity can manipulate cyberspace, allowing it to control global defense intelligence and financial networks. World powers compete to obtain the cruciform key to control the Entity, though the exact means of controlling it are unknown.
Ethan reveals himself and converses with Kittridge, who reveals that he was the one who placed Ilsa's bounty. Ethan confesses his intention to destroy the Entity, knowing he would be considered rogue and is participating in a global race. Ethan and his IMF teammates Benji Dunn and Luther Stickell travel to Abu Dhabi International Airport to intercept the holder of the other key piece, while evading US agents. During the pursuit, the key piece is stolen by Grace, a professional thief, while Luther and Benji disarm a hoax nuclear device. Ethan suspects foul play after seeing Gabriel, a sadistic Entity liaison with ties to his pre-IMF past. Aborting the mission, the team scatters and Grace escapes to Rome. Grace is apprehended upon arrival, but Ethan rescues her from local authorities, US agents and Paris, an Entity operative. Grace escapes again, while Ethan meets up with Luther and Benji, with Ilsa rejoining them. With Benji and Luther pr