Mommie Dearest is a 1981 American biographical psychological drama film directed by Frank Perry and starring Faye Dunaway, Steve Forrest, Mara Hobel, and Diana Scarwid, with supporting performances from Xander Berkeley in his feature film debut along with Rutanya Alda and Jocelyn Brando. Adapted from Christina Crawford's 1978 autobiography of the same name, the film follows her and her brother Christopher's upbringing under their adoptive mother, actress Joan Crawford, depicting her as abusive, controlling, and manipulative, prioritizing her Hollywood career over her family.
The executive producers were Christina's husband, David Koontz, and Terry O'Neill, Dunaway's then-boyfriend and soon-to-be husband. The film was distributed by Paramount Pictures, the only one of the Big Eight film studios for which Crawford had never appeared in a feature film.
Released in September 1981, Mommie Dearest swiftly garnered a reputation among audiences for its highly-charged performances and melodramatic style, leading Paramount to retool their marketing campaign, presenting the film as an unintentional comedy despite its dark subject matter. The film underperformed at the box office, grossing $25 million internationally against a $10 million budget. Crawford's family also condemned the film for portraying Joan as more abusive than Cristina alleged in her original book, with some family members disputing whether abuse occurred at all. Despite receiving mostly negative reviews from critics, the film's perceived bizarre script and performances, particularly Dunaway's, have brought a cult following to the film. 
Often considered to be one of the worst films ever made, it was nominated for nine Razzies at the 2nd Golden Raspberry Awards, and won five, including Worst Picture and Worst Actress for Faye Dunaway.


== Plot ==
Joan Crawford is a dedicated and career-driven actress at MGM. Despite having achieved success in her career, she longs to have a child; however, she is unable to conceive and has suffered a series of miscarriages. Joan applies to adopt a child, but is denied due to the fact she is a single woman. With the help of her love interest, Hollywood attorney Greg Savitt, Joan adopts a blonde haired baby girl and names her Christina. She later adopts a blonde haired boy, naming him Christopher. Joan sometimes lavishes Christina with attention and luxury, such as an extravagant birthday party, but also enforces a strict code of discipline. When Christina begins to rebel against her mother's demands, confrontations ensue. Meanwhile, Joan resents Greg's allegiance to studio boss Louis B. Mayer, and after a quarrel between the two, they end their stormy relationship. Shortly thereafter, Joan is asked to leave MGM since her films are no longer profitable.
Joan's career once again begins an upswing when she obtains the title role in the 1945 film Mildred Pierce, which earns her the Academy Award for Best Actress. Shortly afterward, Joan sends Christina to Chadwick School. A period of time passes, and teenage Christina has developed an interest in acting. A distressed Joan reveals to Christina that she is struggling financially after losing her contract at Warner Bros. Later, Christina finds Joan passed out drunk in her room. When Christina is caught being intimate with a male classmate in the horse stables at Chadwick, Joan withdraws her from the school. After a violent fight at home, Joan sends Christina to Flintridge Sacred Heart Academy. Some time later, Joan has met and married Alfred Steele, president of Pepsi Cola, and moves to New York City.  Steele is a genial, easy going man and he and Christina get along. Shortly thereafter, Steele suddenly dies of a heart attack, and Joan remains with Pepsi.
After graduating from Flintridge, Christina rents an apartment in Manhattan and begins acting professionally, eventually landing a major role in a soap opera. Joan and adult Christina maintain a polite, yet tense, relationship as they lead the