Mr. & Mrs. Smith is a 2005 American action comedy film directed by Doug Liman and written by Simon Kinberg. The film stars Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie as a bored upper middle class married couple, who each are surprised to learn that the other is also an assassin, belonging to competing agencies and that they have been assigned to kill each other. Besides being a box office success,  Mr. & Mrs. Smith also established Pitt and Jolie's personal relationship.
Mr. & Mrs. Smith was released in the United States on June 10, 2005 and received mixed reviews from critics. The film grossed $487.3 million worldwide, becoming the seventh highest-grossing film of 2005.


== Plot ==
John Smith, a construction executive, and his wife Jane, a tech support consultant, are at marriage counseling, where they reveal that they have been married for five or six years, but their marriage is on the rocks. They talk about how they first met in Bogotá, Colombia, claiming to be together to avoid being questioned by Colombian authorities. The two fell in love and got married.
In reality, John and Jane are both skilled field operatives working for separate contract-killing firms and are both among the best in their field. They are also adept at concealing their true profession from each other. The Smiths live in a large Colonial Revival house in the New York suburbs, keeping up appearances by reluctantly socializing with their "conventionally" wealthy neighbors. Underneath their cover stories, John and Jane balance their marriage, which is apparently mundane—after a few years, both agree it is becoming dull and suffocating—with their secretive careers.
After they are both assigned to kill DIA prisoner Benjamin "The Tank" Danz in a prison transfer, they run into each other on the job and the hit is botched. Danz survives and John and Jane are assigned to kill each other instead. After attempts on each other's lives escalate, the Smiths' conflict ends in a massive shootout which nearly demolishes their house. During a protracted and evenly-matched fight, they pull guns aiming at each other. John declines to shoot saying that he loves Jane and lays his gun down. Jane discovers that she cannot shoot John either and they spend a passionate night together.
The renewed Smith partnership is quickly threatened by their employers, who join forces to eliminate the couple. Eddie, John's best friend and co-worker, turns down a bounty of $400,000 for each of them. The Smiths find themselves under attack from an army of assassins. Their pockmarked house is blown up and the Smiths steal their neighbor's minivan. They are able to destroy their attackers' pursuing armored sedans, while bickering about their fighting styles and personal secrets they have discovered about each other. They meet with Eddie and decide to save their marriage. The Smiths kidnap Danz from his high-security prison to use as a bargaining chip.
Danz tells them that he is merely bait and an intern hired by each of their employers after they discovered the Smiths were married; his clients hoped the Smiths would kill each other. Discarding each of their contingency plans, the Smiths make a last stand together, fending off an assault inside a home decorating store by heavily armed operatives. In the aftermath, the Smiths meet their marriage counselor again and say that their marriage is thriving.


== Cast ==


== Production ==
In July 2000, it was announced Summit Entertainment had purchased screenwriter Simon Kinberg's spec script Mr. and Mrs. Smith with Weed Road Pictures slated to produce. Kinberg had written and sold the screenplay while working as a grad student for Columbia University's film program. Producers had managed to secure Brad Pitt for one of the leads, but the original choice of Nicole Kidman dropped out due to scheduling conflicts with The Stepford Wives leaving the film without a co-lead. This even led to Pitt dropping from the film.  The directorial team considered Will Smith and Ca