Mr. Death: The Rise and Fall of Fred A. Leuchter, Jr. is a 1999 American documentary film by Errol Morris about execution technician Fred A. Leuchter.


== Synopsis ==
Using film made at American prisons, Leuchter talks about his upbringing where his  father was a corrections officer.  Through his family associations, young Leuchter claimed he was able to witness an execution performed in an electric chair.  Leuchter's impression of the event was that the electric chairs used by American prisons were unsafe and often ineffective.  The event led him to design modifications to the device that were adopted by many American states.
Leuchter claims he was invited to other American prisons to inspect and design modifications to their electric chairs. He possessed no relevant formal training or education, and claims that he was told that those who did possess such qualifications would not provide advice due to their opinions on the death penalty, fear of reprisals or that they were squeamish about the subject.
Leuchter's career continued with other state prisons seeking his advice on execution facilities other than electrocution, such as gas chambers, hanging and lethal injection.  Though Leuchter initially professed his ignorance of other methods of execution, the authorities seeking his advice reminded him that others with more qualifications refused to help.  Leuchter claims to have taught himself on these other methods of execution and provided advice that was used by the authorities to improve safety and efficiency.
His fall began when Leuchter claimed to have been sought as a witness for the defence of Ernst Zündel during the trial R v Zundel in Canada for "spreading false news" by publishing and sending material denying the Holocaust overseas. Leuchter was asked by the defence to travel to Poland to visit Auschwitz to investigate whether there had been operating gas chambers for executions at the camp.
At his first examination Leuchter felt that using poison gas in a building with the internal and external design of the buildings currently on display in the site would have caused the death of everyone in the area outside the buildings as well as inside. The film shows videotape footage taken in Poland of Leuchter taking samples of bricks in the buildings to take back to the United States forensic science crime labs to determine whether there was evidence of poison gas in the material, these samples were not identified as to where they came from. Leuchter states that the laboratories reported that there was not any trace of any poison gas at any time.
After Leuchter's conclusions were disproven and negative publicity ensued, Leuchter lost his work as consultant to American prisons.


== Background ==
When Morris originally screened an early version of the film for a Harvard University film class, he found that the students reacted by either believing Leuchter's side of the story or by condemning the film as a piece of Holocaust denial. Morris had no such intention, however, as Morris had considered it obvious that Leuchter was wrong, and that the main idea of the film was intended to be the exploration of Leuchter as a being almost completely lacking in self-knowledge:

The Holocaust has been used in movies as a way of increasing drama in a sense that the triumph of the human spirit never looked so triumphant against the horrors. This movie attempts to do something very different. It's to try to enter the mindset of denial. You are asked to reflect on the whole idea of denial in general, not as some postwar phenomenon but as something that was inherent in the enterprise itself. You would think it would be the easiest thing in the world to identify this behavior as wrong, horrific, depraved. Those people did these things. To me, the question is how. With Mr. Death, it's about finding out why Fred Leuchter holds these views.
Thus, the "fall" of Leuchter's life is portrayed not as a result of any particular ill feelings toward the