Mr. Jones (Mr Jones in British release) (Polish: Obywatel Jones, lit. 'Citizen Jones', Ukrainian: Ціна правди, lit. 'The Price of Truth') is a 2019 Polish-Ukrainian-British thriller biographical film written and co-produced by Andrea Chalupa and directed by Agnieszka Holland. It is based on the true story of the British journalist Gareth Jones, who uncovers the truth of the devastating famine
('Holodomor') in which millions died in Ukrainian Republic, Soviet Union.
The film was selected to compete for the Golden Bear at the 69th Berlin International Film Festival.


== Plot ==
In 1933 Gareth Jones is an ambitious young journalist, who has gained some renown for his interview with Adolf Hitler. The son of an English teacher in the Welsh colony of Hughesovka in Soviet Ukraine, Jones is also fascinated by how Stalin's Soviet Union has gone from a backward peasant state to an industrial powerhouse that appears to be the only country unaffected by the Great Depression and believes that its success means that a British-Soviet alliance is the key to preventing the Nazi domination of Europe. To this end, Jones has taken up a job as a political advisor to David Lloyd George, the former British prime minister, but with funding limited owing to the economic difficulties, and after failing to make his case in a critical meeting, he is made redundant.
Trading on his connections in Britain and in Russia, Jones manages to obtain a Russian visa with the intention of setting up an interview with Stalin. Upon arrival he meets Eugene Lyons, a Russian-American journalist, who is with a party of British engineers from Metropolitan-Vickers; they take him to a party at the home of Walter Duranty and give him cryptic hints that the Soviets are not as enlightened as they make out, and that the Soviet economic miracle may not rest on the famed efficiency of the Ukrainian farms as they have claimed. He is also informed that journalists are forbidden to venture outside of Moscow. Through a chance meeting with fellow British journalist Ada Brooks—who is under close observation by the OGPU, the Soviet secret police—he learns that his contact in Moscow was murdered by the authorities while investigating the supposed Ukrainian agricultural revolution. Armed with this information, Jones alters his documents to make him appear to be still be employed by Lloyd George and obtains an invitation to Ukraine by the Soviet foreign minister Maxim Litvinov.
On the train journey south, Jones takes advantage of a brief stop to leave his train and sneak onto another train, which is taking starving peasant workers to Hughesovka—now renamed Stalino. At Stalino, he finds that all of the grain shipments are being immediately sent to Moscow, but he is labelled a foreign spy and forced to flee into the woods. After escaping he witnesses abandoned villages, with peasants dying in their own homes. After travelling for several days he eventually hears from the locals that the famine has been started deliberately by Moscow; he is ultimately caught by the OGPU.
Taken to a Soviet prison, Jones briefly encounters the engineers whom he met in Moscow, who have now also been accused of espionage. Under interrogation he is told that he will be sent back to London without charges, with an expectation that he will repeat to the press the story the Soviets wish to be heard—that Ukraine is the breadbasket of the USSR and any stories of a famine are rumours. Only if he does this will the Russians agree to release the engineers.
Back in London his publisher introduces him to George Orwell, who persuades Jones to tell the truth for the greater good. Hearing his claims about the actions of the Soviet government, Orwell responds by writing Animal Farm. In response to Jones's claims, Duranty—who through idealism and bribery is using his position to act as a propaganda mouthpiece for Stalin—mobilises his contacts to rebut any stories of famine in Ukraine. Litvinov similarly puts pressure on Lloyd Ge