Mrs. Doubtfire is a 1993 American comedy-drama film directed by Chris Columbus and written by Randi Mayem Singer and Leslie Dixon, based on the 1987 novel, Madame Doubtfire, by Anne Fine. Robin Williams, who also served as a producer, stars with Sally Field, Pierce Brosnan, Harvey Fierstein, and Robert Prosky. It follows a recently divorced actor who disguises himself as an elderly female housekeeper to be able to interact with his 3 children. The film addresses themes of divorce, separation, and the effect that they have on a family.
The film was released in the United States by 20th Century Fox on November 24, 1993. It won the Academy Award for Best Makeup, and the Golden Globe Award for Best Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy. Williams was awarded the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor in a Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy.
The film grossed $441.3 million on a $25 million budget, making it the second-highest-grossing film of 1993. Although the film received mixed reviews on release, its reception and popularity have since improved considerably, being placed 67th in the American Film Institute's "AFI's 100 Years...100 Laughs" list and 40th on Bravo's "100 Funniest Movies of All Time" list. The original music score was composed by Howard Shore.


== Plot ==
Daniel Hillard, a freelance voice actor living in San Francisco, is a devoted father to his three children — 14-year-old Lydia, 12-year-old Chris, and 5-year-old Natalie — although his workaholic wife Miranda, an interior designer, considers him immature and unreliable. After quitting his job following a disagreement over a morally questionable script, Daniel returns home to throw Chris a chaotic birthday party, despite Miranda's objections due to Chris's poor grades. In the ensuing argument, Miranda admits that she wants a divorce. Due to his unemployed and homeless status, Miranda is granted sole custody of the children, with Daniel having visitation rights every Saturday; shared custody is contingent on Daniel finding a steady job and suitable residence within three months.
Daniel secures an apartment and a job as a shipping clerk at a TV station. When he learns that Miranda is seeking a housekeeper, Daniel secretly alters her classified ad form, then calls her using his voice acting skills to pose as a series of undesirable applicants before finally calling as "Mrs. Doubtfire", a name he gets from a newspaper headline. She is an elderly British nanny with strong credentials. Impressed, Miranda invites Mrs. Doubtfire for an interview. Daniel's brother, Frank, a makeup artist, and Frank's domestic partner, Jack, help Daniel appear as an old woman through the use of makeup and prosthetics.
Miranda hires Mrs. Doubtfire following a successful interview. The children initially struggle under her authority, but soon come around and thrive, while Miranda becomes more easygoing and closer with the kids. Daniel further improves himself as well, becoming more responsible, learning several household skills, and earning Miranda's respect. However, Miranda puts more trust in Mrs. Doubtfire than in Daniel, and cannot bring herself to dismiss her. Miranda also begins dating an old friend, Stu, much to Daniel's chagrin. One night, Chris catches Mrs. Doubtfire standing while urinating and frantically instructs Lydia to call the police. Panicked, Daniel reveals the truth; Lydia and Chris agree to keep his secret so that they can keep spending time with their father.
One day, the station's CEO, Jonathan Lundy, sees Daniel playing with props on the set of a recently canceled children's show. Impressed by his voice acting, humor, and imagination, Lundy invites Daniel to dinner to discuss plans for a new show. The meeting turns out to be at the same place and time as a planned birthday dinner for Miranda, to which Mrs. Doubtfire is invited. Daniel spends the night changing in and out of the Mrs. Doubtfire costume so that he can attend both events. Becoming intoxicated, Daniel accidentally r