Beatrice is a fictional character in William Shakespeare's play Much Ado About Nothing. In the play, she is the niece of Leonato and the cousin of Hero. Atypically for romantic heroines of the sixteenth century, she is feisty and sharp-witted; these characteristics have led some scholars to label Beatrice a protofeminist character. During the play, she is tricked into falling in love with Benedick, a soldier with whom she has a "merry war", after rumours are spread that they are in love with each other.
Beatrice has been portrayed by many actors including Frances Abington, Ellen Terry, Judi Dench, Maggie Smith, Tamsin Greig, Emma Thompson, Catherine Tate, Danielle Brooks, and Amy Acker.


== Origins ==
Shakespeare likely would have first encountered the name Beatrice in Dante's Divine Comedy in which the character of Beatrice represents divine knowledge.
Mary Augusta Scott first suggested in 1901 that Beatrice is modelled on Baldassare Castiglione's Emilia Pia from The Book of the Courtier. Walter N. King described Beatrice as representing the Petrarchan archetype of "the disdainful woman of courtly love", suggesting that she was perhaps inspired by Petrarch. Some critics suggest the Beatrice/Benedick plot has its origins in Ariosto's Orlando Furioso.
Some critics see Rosalind and Berowne (Love's Labour's Lost) and Katherina and Petruchio (The Taming of the Shrew) as Shakespeare's precursors to the witty pairing of Beatrice and Benedick.


=== Name ===
The name Beatrice is the Italian form of Beatrix which likely comes from the Latin viator meaning voyager or traveller. Beatrice also means "she who blesses" or "blesser" in Latin. This meaning is especially relevant given that the name Benedick means "blessed".


== Role in the play ==
Beatrice lives with her uncle Leonato and his daughter, Hero, in Messina, Italy. At the outset of the play, Leonato welcomes a group of soldiers to his home including Benedick, with whom Beatrice has a "merry war". Beatrice and Benedick resume fighting with each other and both declare their disinterest in marriage and the opposite sex. The prince, Don Pedro, enlists everyone to trick Beatrice and Benedick into falling in love. Hero and her gentlewoman Ursula gull Beatrice by discussing Benedick's infatuation with her knowing that Beatrice will overhear. Their trickery is successful and Beatrice vows to requite Benedick's love.
Hero, who is engaged to a young soldier, Claudio, is left at the altar and accused of being unfaithful. Beatrice is unquestioning about Hero's innocence and plays along in the friar's plan to fake Hero's death to prove her innocence. After the wedding, Benedick tells Beatrice that he loves her. After some hesitation, Beatrice reveals that she feels the same way. Benedick tells Beatrice that he will do anything for her and she asks that he "Kill Claudio". Benedick denies her request and she rages at him about the injustices perpetrated against her cousin. Benedick eventually agrees, albeit reluctantly, to kill Claudio.
Later, Benedick tells Beatrice he has challenged Claudio to a duel, though she finds this insufficient. Hero is proven innocent and ends up marrying Claudio before Benedick needs to act on his promise. After some pretending, Beatrice and Benedick are compelled to admit to their true feelings when love letters they have written are revealed by Hero and Claudio. With their love revealed, Beatrice and Benedick marry, concluding the play.


== Analysis ==


=== Feminist critiques ===
Feminist critics argue that Beatrice's wit and female power only serve to enable and maintain male power. In this interpretation, Beatrice's marriage at the end of the play represents her ultimately losing her power in order to become a wife. These critics see Beatrice and Benedick's marriage at the play's conclusion as representing a curing of social abnormality. On the other-hand, critics such as Barbara Everett and John Crick have described Beatrice as a protofeminist. Cedric Watts