Music from Another Room is a 1998 American romantic comedy film directed by Charlie Peters and starring Jude Law, Jennifer Tilly, Gretchen Mol, Martha Plimpton, and Brenda Blethyn. The story is about a struggling artist who believes he is destined to marry the young woman whose birth he assisted with as a child. The film was intended for theatrical release but was ultimately distributed direct-to-video.


== Plot ==
On Thanksgiving 1973, five-year-old Danny Kowalski accompanies his doctor father Hank to visit family friend Grace Swan. While they are there, Grace unexpectedly goes into labor with her fourth baby. Because Hank had been enjoying Thanksgiving wine all day, he asks his son to help assist him with the birth. Danny is tasked with using his hands to unwrap the umbilical cord from the baby's neck. The birth is successful and the baby girl is named Anna. Danny, astounded by the whole event, happily announces "I'm going to marry her!"  
Twenty-five years later, Danny has returned to the United States from England, where he had been raised. Danny, now a mosaic tile restorer hoping to become a master tiler, is interviewing for a recommended restoration. He finds a modest apartment owned by a bakery shop couple, who offer him a delivery job until the tile work starts. He gets lost on his first delivery and stops for directions at a house with a distinctive swan bell. The house is still inhabited by the Swan family, and before Danny leaves, he sees elder daughter Nina and the now grown Anna. He completes the delivery but is mystified at the coincidence. He tells his kind baker boss and his wife about the chance reunion, and they fill him in a bit on the Swans' story and what he missed.
Soon, the Swan family orders a cake from the bakery and Danny leaves to deliver it in the hopes of seeing Anna. He crashes his bike into a car outside the home and loses consciousness. He wakes up inside the house, meeting Grace and her family. Nina reveals her lifelong blindness and the fears that keep her from a normal life. He meets the brother Billy and Billy's wife, Irene, who is distraught over her husband's infidelities and exhibits bizarre behaviors. Danny reacquaints himself with Anna's father Richard and Anna's sister Karen. He is invited to stay for dinner, during which he learns of Anna's recent engagement to her boyfriend, Eric. They converse about love and when asked what love is like, Danny states that it is like hearing music from another room so beautiful that it compels one to hum along.
Danny begins his job as a mosaic tiler artist at the local museum. A few days later when he is with Anna again, he asks her to run away with him and marry him. However, Anna rejects him kindly. He confesses his love for Anna to his coworkers who give him a trick, two-headed coin, instructing him to tell Anna: "Heads you love me, tails I leave you alone." Danny uses it the next time he is alone with Anna, but she claims the right to read the result and calls "tails". 
In the meantime, Danny has befriended the Swan family, helping Nina with her self-imposed fears. He sees that Anna's motherly way with her siblings is a bit stifling, and works at helping her lighten her grip. Danny accompanies Nina to a local dance where she meets Jesus, a young tradesman. By the time Jesus and Nina have become a couple, Grace is dying from an illness. Anna has grown feelings for Danny and one day rushes to his home to confess her love for him, claiming she lied and that the coin flip read "heads." The two sleep together, after which Anna leaves to go tell Grace she truly loves Danny. Irene and Billy have another one of their confrontations, ending with her shooting him in the foot.
The previous night, Nina and Jesus had eloped. Nina informed Grace, who was thrilled and happy for her daughter. When Anna arrives home to tell her mother about her new relationship with Danny, she discovers she is too late and Grace passed away that night. At Grace's funeral, Anna t