My Boyfriend's Back is a 1993 American zombie horror comedy film directed by Bob Balaban which tells the story of Johnny Dingle (Andrew Lowery), a teenage boy who returns from the dead as a zombie to meet Missy McCloud (Traci Lind), the girl he's in love with, for a date. The film received negative reviews.
The film's title is a reference to the 1963 song of the same name by The Angels (which is used in the promotional trailers, but not featured in the film itself). The original title of the film, Johnny Zombie, was changed shortly before the film's theatrical release. Philip Seymour Hoffman, Matthew McConaughey, and Matthew Fox appear in small roles in the film.


== Plot ==
Johnny Dingle has been in love with Missy McCloud since they were kids. In his senior year of high school, he decides to fake a robbery at Missy's job with his best friend, Eddie. He hopes that by stopping the "robbery" he will impress her and she will go to the prom with him.
During the "robbery" a real robber holds Johnny and Missy at gunpoint. Thinking that the robber is Eddie, Johnny dies taking a bullet meant for Missy. After the funeral, Johnny rises from the grave. He is greeted by Murray the gravedigger, who warns him that he can't leave the cemetery. Johnny ignores him and goes back to his home.
Missy is hesitant to be around Johnny, but changes her mind when her boyfriend Buck and his dim-witted friend Chuck discriminate against him for being a Zombie. They go on a date, which goes well until Missy accidentally rips Johnny's ear off.
Johnny goes to the town doctor, Dr. Bronson, who refers him to a woman named Maggie, the widow of a zombie.  She tells Johnny that he needs to eat the flesh of the living to stop decaying.
Johnny and Missy meet up at the library, where he's attacked by Buck and Chuck. Chuck accidentally hits himself in the head with an ax and dies. Johnny eats Chuck's body, invoking the wrath of Chuck's father, Big Chuck.
Missy's father, the town sheriff, tells Johnny to leave town for his own safety. Johnny doesn't listen and returns to Missy at night, but leaves when he bites her arm. He's captured by Dr.Bronson, who attempts to dissect Johnny and create a youth formula from his zombie cells. Johnny escapes when Big Chuck leads a mob to kill him, with Missy and Eddie helping him. He flees to the cemetery, where Murray, his parents, Eddie, and Missy defend him, earning him the town and the sheriff's acceptance. Johnny and Missy dance, but Johnny begins to decay and dies.
In Heaven, he's told by the gatekeeper that he was not meant to die in the robbery, and he is sent back to the moment before the robber entered. The events replay but Johnny survives this time due to the bullet hitting Missy's locket. Johnny and Missy go to the prom as a couple.


== Cast ==
Andrew Lowery as Johnny Dingle
Traci Lind as Missy McCloud
Danny Zorn as Eddie
Edward Herrmann as Mr. Dingle
Mary Beth Hurt as Mrs. Dingle
Jay O. Sanders as Sheriff McCloud
Libby Villari as Camille McCloud
Matthew Fox as Buck Van Patten
Philip Hoffman as Chuck Bronski
Paul Dooley as Big Chuck
Austin Pendleton as Dr. Bronson
Bob Dishy as Murray the Gravedigger
Cloris Leachman as Maggie the Zombie Expert
Paxton Whitehead as Judge in Heaven
Matthew McConaughey as Guy #2
Renée Zellweger (scenes cut)


== Production ==
A script, initially consisting mainly of comic sketches about a teenage boy transforming into a zombie, was presented to writer Dean Lorey by a friend, who asked him to develop a cohesive story. In September 1992, Touchstone Pictures initiated development on the project, then titled Johnny Zombie. Actor-director Bob Balaban became involved in October 1992 after receiving the script in August 1992, giving him only a few weeks to prepare for production. Balaban enlisted several actors from his previous collaborations, including Austin Pendleton, Mary Beth Hurt, Cloris Leachman, and Jules Feiffer. The film marked the cinematic debuts of Matthew Fox and Matthew McConaughe