Nadine Elizabeth Louise Coyle (born 15 June 1985) is an Irish singer. In 2002, she was selected as a member of Girls Aloud, a pop girl group created through ITV's reality competition show Popstars: The Rivals. The group went on to receive large success, achieving a string of 20 consecutive UK top ten singles (including four number ones), two UK number one albums, five consecutive platinum selling studio albums, and receiving nominations for five BRIT Awards, winning Best Single in 2009 for "The Promise".
In 2010, Coyle released her debut solo studio album, Insatiable, and its title track, through her own record label, Black Pen Records, in partnership with supermarket giant Tesco.  In 2017, she released the single "Go to Work" on Virgin EMI Records, and later that year, she released her debut EP, Nadine.


== Early life ==
Coyle was born on 15 June 1985 to Lillian and Niall Coyle in Derry, Northern Ireland. Her parents first noticed her talent for singing at the age of two, when she sang The Drifters' "Saturday Night at the Movies". Coyle was uninterested in her education but received good marks. She recorded a demo CD, which was distributed to Louis Walsh and The Late Late Show. The CD included cover versions of "Fields of Gold", "Somewhere Over the Rainbow", "Love Is" and the aria "Summertime".


== Career ==


=== 2001: Popstars ===
While attending Thornhill College in 2001, Coyle auditioned for the Irish version of the reality television talent show Popstars, on which Louis Walsh was a judge. She won a place in the band Six, but it was later revealed that she had lied about her age. She was 16 years old, two years younger than the minimum age requirement of 18. She returned to Thornhill College in Derry.


=== 2002–2009: Girls Aloud ===

Walsh encouraged Coyle to enter Popstars: The Rivals, the second British series of the international Popstars franchise. The series' goal was to create two winning pop groups – a boy band and a girl group, each consisting of five members who would then partake in "a battle of the sexes" as they vie for the Christmas number one on the UK Singles Chart. Several thousand applicants attended auditions across the UK in hope of being selected. Ten girls and ten boys were chosen as finalists by judges Walsh, Pete Waterman and Geri Halliwell. These finalists then took to the stage participating in weekly Saturday night live performances (alternating weekly between the girls and boys). Following her performance of "Fields of Gold", Walsh told her she gave the "performance of the night. Stole the show for me," while fellow judge Halliwell said, "I'd love to buy a single of yours already".
Coyle joined Cheryl Tweedy, Sarah Harding, Nicola Roberts and Kimberley Walsh to comprise the new girl group Girls Aloud, formed through the show by a public vote on 30 November 2002. The group's debut single "Sound of the Underground" peaked at number one on the UK Singles Chart, becoming the 2002 Christmas number one. Girls Aloud hold the record for the shortest time between formation and reaching number one. The group released their debut album Sound of the Underground in May 2003, which entered the charts at number two and was certified platinum by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI) later the same year. Their singles "I'll Stand by You", "Walk This Way" and "The Promise" charted at number one. Two of their albums have reached the top of the UK Albums Chart: their greatest hits album The Sound of Girls Aloud and 2008's Out of Control, both of which entered the chart at number one, with over one million copies of the former being sold.
They also achieved seven certified albums and have been nominated for five Brit Awards, winning the 2009 Best Single for "The Promise".
The group's musical style is pop, but throughout their career they had experimented with electropop and dance-pop. Girls Aloud's collaborations with Brian Higgins and his songwriting and production team Xenomania earned the group critical accl