The Naked Gun: From the Files of Police Squad! (also known as simply The Naked Gun) is a 1988 American crime comedy film directed by David Zucker, and produced and released by Paramount Pictures. The film stars Leslie Nielsen as the bumbling police lieutenant Frank Drebin, who sets out to uncover a criminal plot involving people being mind controlled to assassinate targets. Priscilla Presley, Ricardo Montalbán, George Kennedy, and O. J. Simpson also star in supporting roles.
The film features fast-paced slapstick comedy, including many visual and verbal puns and gags. The film is based on the character portrayed by Nielsen in the television series Police Squad!, and is also a continuation of the latter. The core creative team behind Police Squad! and the film series includes the team of David Zucker, Jim Abrahams, and Jerry Zucker (ZAZ) as well as Pat Proft in varying combinations. Released on December 2, 1988, The Naked Gun was a critical and commercial success, which led to two sequels: The Naked Gun 2+1⁄2: The Smell of Fear (1991) and Naked Gun 33+1⁄3: The Final Insult (1994).


== Plot ==
Police Squad Lieutenant Frank Drebin is on vacation in Beirut when he disrupts a conference of America's greatest enemies (Idi Amin, Muammar Gaddafi, Ayatollah Khomeini, Yasser Arafat, Fidel Castro, and Mikhail Gorbachev) who are trying to conceive a terrorist plan to humiliate the U.S. In Los Angeles, Officer Nordberg attempts to bust a heroin operation run by businessman Vincent Ludwig but is shot by Ludwig's henchmen. Drebin returns to L.A. and is briefed on the case before visiting Nordberg in the hospital. Nordberg provides cryptic clues, including a picture of Ludwig's ship on which the deal had been organized. Frank also learns that Nordberg's jacket tested positive for heroin.
Police Squad is put in charge of security for the visit of Queen Elizabeth II to Los Angeles, and Captain Ed Hocken tells Drebin that he has 24 hours to clear Nordberg before word gets out and detracts from the Queen's visit. Drebin visits Ludwig to inquire about the ship and Ludwig learns that Nordberg is still alive. Ludwig asks his assistant Jane, who is unaware of Ludwig's criminal activities, to get close to Drebin and see what he knows.  Jane provides Drebin with information he requested and the two begin falling in love.  Ludwig meets with Pahpshmir, from the Beirut meeting, to discuss an assassination plot against the Queen. Ludwig agrees to do it for $20 million and explains that he will use a beeper that uses post-hypnotic suggestion to make anyone an unwitting assassin. Ludwig attempts to have Nordberg killed at the hospital by hypnotizing his doctor, but Drebin successfully protects Nordberg.  The doctor is killed in a comical fashion before Drebin can interrogate him.
Drebin then breaks into Ludwig's office to search for evidence. He finds a note from Pahpshmir to Ludwig which confirms his suspicions, but accidentally starts a fire that destroys the note and the office. Drebin later confronts Ludwig with his allegations at a reception for the Queen's arrival. He misinterprets Ludwig's presentation of a musket to the Queen as an attack and tries to protect her, but only causes more of a problem and is fired from Police Squad. Jane finds out the plan will be executed at a baseball game at Anaheim Stadium and that one of the players will perform the act.  She tells Drebin of the plan but he is forced to sneak into the game in disguise.
Police Squad arrives at the stadium and Drebin tells them about the plot. Drebin knocks the home plate umpire out and takes his place in order to frisk the players for weapons while they are at bat.  Ludwig eventually activates his assassin, Reggie Jackson. Jane alerts Drebin, who chases after Jackson and tackles him, causing a bench-clearing brawl that allows Jackson to escape. Ludwig holds Jane at gunpoint and begins to leave the stadium while Jackson takes aim at the Queen. Drebin tries to tranquilize Jackson, but