The Naked Gun 2½: The Smell of Fear is a 1991 American crime comedy film. It is the sequel to the 1988 film The Naked Gun: From the Files of Police Squad! and the second installment in The Naked Gun film series. The film stars Leslie Nielsen as the comically bumbling Police Lt. Frank Drebin of Police Squad!. Priscilla Presley plays the role of Jane, with O. J. Simpson as Nordberg and George Kennedy as police captain Ed Hocken. The film also features Robert Goulet (who previously made a "special guest star" appearance on Police Squad!) as the villainous Quentin Hapsburg and Richard Griffiths as renewable fuel advocate Dr. Albert S. Meinheimer (as well as his evil double, Earl Hacker). Zsa Zsa Gabor, Mel Tormé and members of the Chicago Bears have cameo roles.
David Zucker returns from the first entry as director and screenwriter of the film. Jim Abrahams and Jerry Zucker serve as executive producers for the film and receive writing credit due to their contributions to the first entry of the series and the Police Squad! television series. However, neither contributed to the screenplay for the film. The film was a box office success, grossing $192 million against a budget of $23 million. It received mixed reviews from critics, who concluded it to be inferior to its predecessor. A third installment in the series, Naked Gun 33⅓: The Final Insult, was released in 1994.


== Plot ==
At the White House, President George H. W. Bush announces that he will base the country's energy policy on the recommendations of Dr. Albert Meinheimer.  The heads of the coal, oil, and nuclear power industries are upset by the President's decision as Dr. Meinheimer plans to advocate for renewable energy. Jane Spencer, now separated from Frank Drebin, is working late at Dr. Meinheimer's research institute when she spots a suspicious man leaving in a van. A maintenance worker finds a clock with dynamite attached and takes it to the security guards, who accidentally trigger an explosion.
The next morning, Frank is reunited with Jane as he investigates the bombing. He also meets Jane's new boyfriend, Hexagon Oil executive Quentin Hapsburg, and becomes exceedingly jealous. Later that evening, Frank and his boss Ed Hocken meet up at a blues bar.  Jane finds Frank at the bar, and they get into an argument, after which Jane storms out.  Elsewhere, Hapsburg holds a secret meeting of the energy industry leaders where he reveals his plan for changing Dr. Meinheimer's speech. Hapsburg introduces them to Earl Hacker, a dead ringer for Dr. Meinheimer who will take Dr. Meinheimer's place and deliver a speech recommending more fossil fuels.  Dr. Meinheimer is kidnapped by Hapsburg's goons, who tie him up and leave him in a warehouse.
Police Squad tracks down Hector Savage, the man whom Jane saw on the night of the bombing.  Savage leads them on a short chase that ends in a standoff at a nearby house.  While Savage negotiates with the police, Frank drives a SWAT tank through the house and allows Savage to flee.  Frank loses control of the tank and crashes into the city zoo, causing the animals to escape. At a party later that evening, Frank notices that Dr. Meinheimer does not remember meeting him despite having a photographic memory. Frank visits Jane at her apartment after the party and asks if Dr. Meinheimer had been acting strange. After Frank leaves, Savage breaks into Jane's apartment and tries to kill her in the shower.  Frank intervenes and kills Savage. Jane realizes she still loves Frank and the two rekindle their romance.
The next day, Police Squad stakes out the warehouse where Dr. Meinheimer is being held captive.  Frank tries to sneak into the building but is captured and tied up with Dr. Meinheimer.  They are freed by Police Squad and head to the Press Club Dinner to stop Hacker. Jane agrees to open a locked door to let them in, but she is interrupted by Hapsburg.  Frank, Ed, Nordberg, and Dr. Meinheimer steal a mariachi band's costumes and sneak inside.  