The Croods: A New Age (also known as The Croods 2) is a 2020 American animated adventure comedy film produced by DreamWorks Animation and distributed by Universal Pictures. The sequel to The Croods (2013) as well as the second installment of The Croods franchise, it was directed by Joel Crawford (in his feature directorial debut) from a screenplay by Paul Fisher, Bob Logan, and the writing team of Dan and Kevin Hageman, based on a story by Kirk DeMicco and Chris Sanders (who directed the previous film). The film features the returning voices of Nicolas Cage, Emma Stone, Ryan Reynolds, Catherine Keener, Clark Duke and Cloris Leachman. The film also makes new additions to the cast, including Peter Dinklage, Leslie Mann and Kelly Marie Tran. The film follows The Croods, Guy and their pets Belt, Chunky and Douglas, as they discover an idyllic, walled-in paradise that meets all of their needs. Unfortunately, they must also learn to live with the Bettermans, a family with a couple of steps above the Croods on the evolutionary ladder.
A sequel to The Croods was first announced in April 2013, with directors Sanders and DeMicco returning to helm the film. Its development continued through 2014 and 2015 until its cancellation in November 2016 due to doubts in response to Universal's acquisition of DreamWorks. However, the project was revived in September 2017 with Crawford replacing Sanders and DeMicco as director in the following month. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States, most of the final results from the animating process were done from the crew's homes.
The Croods: A New Age was theatrically released in the United States on November 25, 2020. It grossed $216 million worldwide against its $65 million budget and received mostly positive reviews, with critics calling it "a decent-enough follow-up" and praising the cast and animation. The film was also nominated for the Golden Globe Award for Best Animated Feature Film.


== Plot ==
The Croods, including Guy and their pets, Chunky and Douglas, are still on a quest to find a suitable place to settle while battling dangerous creatures. Grug, the family patriarch, is increasingly concerned about the budding romance between Guy and his daughter, Eep, fearing they might leave the rest of the family behind.
Their journey takes an unexpected turn when Grug discovers a massive wall and leads the family to a paradise-like land on the other side. However, they are soon captured by the land's owners, Phil and Hope Betterman, modern humans who were friends with Guy's late parents and are now technologically advanced, well-mannered, and somewhat condescending toward the Croods. Phil and Hope hope to persuade Guy to stay with them, believing he would be better off, and devise a plan to get him to leave the Croods.
Grug's time with the Betterman family becomes uncomfortable as he is manipulated by Phil, who believes that Guy should stay with them in exchange for Eep staying with her family. Hope also tries to manipulate Ugga, Grug's wife, but fails, leading to Grug and Ugga's decision to leave. Eep discovers that Phil and Hope's daughter, Dawn, has never left the inside of the wall. Feeling isolated, Eep persuades Dawn to escape with her for a joyride using Chunky, but their adventure goes awry. Upon their return, Guy scolds Eep for her recklessness, leading to a falling out between them. During dinner, tensions escalate, and Grug accidentally reveals the plan hatched with Phil. Fed up with the Bettermans' condescension and their differences, the Croods decide to leave, while Guy opts to stay behind. However, their departure is soon disrupted by Punch Monkeys who are angry for not having bananas that Phil had been providing as a daily offering. The Punch Monkeys capture Grug, Phil, and Guy and the remaining Croods and Bettermans follow their scent.
The Punch Monkeys take Grug, Guy, and Phil to their home and discover the reason behind the monkeys' aggression: Phil's irrigation project d