Next Friday is a 2000 American stoner comedy film and the sequel to the 1995 film Friday. It is the first film to be produced by Ice Cube's film production company Cubevision, and to be written by Cube himself. It was directed by Steve Carr and stars Ice Cube, Mike Epps, Justin Pierce, John Witherspoon, Tamala Jones, and Tommy "Tiny" Lister Jr. It is the second installment in the Friday series as it tells the story of Craig Jones as he goes to live with his uncle (who just won the lottery) and cousin in Rancho Cucamonga after the neighborhood bully Deebo escapes from prison where Craig contends with three criminal brothers known as the Joker Brothers. Next Friday was theatrically released on January 12, 2000, grossing $59 million worldwide. The film has received generally negative reviews from critics.
A third film, titled Friday After Next, was released in November 2002.


== Plot ==
After finding out Deebo escaped prison to get revenge on Craig, Willie decides it would be safer for Craig to move to Rancho Cucamonga to live with his uncle Elroy and cousin Day-Day, who just won the lottery. Day-Day explains to Craig that while winning the lottery, all of the taxes and fees that were taken out only left them enough to buy their house and a car. A mailman delivers a notice informing them that their house could face repossession.
Before Craig visits Day-Day at work at a record shop, an angry customer threatens Day-Day. Craig makes the customer run out of the store, and Day-Day introduces Craig to his white skateboarder friend and co-worker Roach. Craig then shows Day-Day the notice and worries. Day Day hides from his girlfriend D'Wana and her sister Baby D who constantly harass him saying that he is her baby's father. D'Wana throws a brick at his car windshield. Day-Day's boss Pinky arrives at the store, finding it locked. While Day-Day and Roach are in the back smoking, a scuffle between Craig and Pinky ensues in which Pinky mistakes him for a robber, while Craig tries to explain who he is. Pinky then fires Day-Day and Roach in anger.
Craig, Day-Day, and Roach try to figure out how to keep the house. Craig remembers seeing their neighbors, a trio of gang member brothers known as "the Jokers", who live with their sister Karla carrying a hydraulic pump. Suspecting that it may be hiding cash, Craig convinces Day-Day and Roach to help him get inside the Jokers' house and steal their pump.
Later that night, Roach drugs the Jokers' Chico with Cannabis to keep him distracted while Craig sneaks into the Jokers' house. Craig locates the pump finding cash is hidden inside and taking some for himself. He bumps into Karla, who talks about what happened to her mom and the Joker brothers. Craig escapes out of a window. Panicking after the eldest Joker closes the window (the way Craig got into the house), Day-Day and Roach knock on the Jokers' door as a diversion for Craig to escape. After discovering the money from the pump is missing, The Jokers take Day-Day and Roach hostage and tie them up with duct tape.
Willie returns to the neighborhood while unknowingly hauling Deebo and his brother Tyrone in his truck, who snuck in earlier. Craig returns to Elroy's house only to find Willie and Elroy waiting for him. Craig, Willie, and Elroy decide to head the Jokers' house to rescue Day-Day and Roach with Elroy's girlfriend Suga saying she will call the police if they are not back in ten minutes.
The trio sneaks into the Jokers' backyard. Joker sends Baby Joker and Lil' Joker to get a chainsaw from the toolshed. Willie knocks Baby Joker with a 2x4 and Elroy tackles Lil' Joker. Willie ties the younger Jokers up and puts them in the shed.
Joker goes out to look for his brothers and finds Elroy on the ground due to his back giving out after tackling Lil' Joker. Craig then engages him in a fight. As Craig and Joker fight, Day-Day and Roach, while bound and gagged, attempt to escape but fail until Elroy comes and unties them. Day-Day and Roach run to Crai