The Night Flier (also known as Stephen King's The Night Flier) is a 1997 American horror film based on the 1988 short story of the same name by Stephen King. Directed and co-written by Mark Pavia, the film stars Miguel Ferrer as Richard Dees, a tabloid reporter who, while investigating a series of murders committed in airfields, begins to suspect that the killer may be a vampire.
The Night Flier premiered on television in the United States on HBO on November 7, 1997, receiving a limited theatrical release in the United States by New Line Cinema the following year.


== Plot ==
Richard Dees is a cynical tabloid reporter whose motto is "Never believe what you publish and never publish what you believe." Merton Morrison, his editor-in-chief at the tabloid Inside View, assigns him to investigate a series of murders at rural airfields. The killer is a mysterious pilot who appears to believe he is a vampire and is registered under the name of Dwight Renfield. Dees initially refuses the story, and Morrison assigns it novice reporter Katherine Blair. Dees later changes his mind and agrees to investigate after two more murders are committed at another airfield, the victims drained of their blood. Blair is outraged when Morrison gives the story to Dees, who begins using his own light aircraft to retrace the killer's path.
Dees gathers witness accounts and bribes officials as he conducts his investigation. He is amoral, caring only about sensationalizing the story: he has no scruples about desecrating a grave for a photo opportunity or taking pictures of dead victims for publication. As he investigates, he receives messages from Renfield warning him off the story. 
Dees grows obsessed with the story, as it appears that Renfield has hypnotic abilities often associated with vampires. Dees antagonizes his editor Morrison by refusing to provide an article until he finishes investigating. An angry Morrison sends Blair to conduct her own parallel investigation. Dees and Blair run into each other at a motel, and Dees convinces Blair to join forces with the promise that he will share the byline with her. 
The duo determine that Renfield has just landed at Wilmington airfield. Dees betrays Blair, locking her in a closet and telling her he doesn't share bylines. He flies to Wilmington and finds Renfield's black Cessna Skymaster, the interior covered in blood and an old photo album showing a pilot and his wife. 
The airfield is deserted, but when Dees enters the terminal, he finds dozens of mutilated bodies. He photographs the bodies until, finally unnerved, he goes to the bathroom to vomit. There Renfield confronts him. Renfield, clearly a monstrous being but with his face still obscured, tells the reporter that he likes Dees's work and would find the world more dull without him in it. Renfield destroys Dees' photographic film and gives one final warning to leave him alone. As Renfield leaves, Dees chases after him and demands to see Renfield's face. Renfield complies, remarking that Dees has been chasing death his whole life; Renfield's face is hideous and malformed, and the vampire forces Dees to drink his blood. Dees hallucinates that the victims are rising as revenants (or folkloric vampires), so he grabs a fire ax and begins recklessly hacking them. Police officers arrive on the scene, accompanied by Blair, and find Dees alone chopping up bodies. They shoot him dead. Blair goes to the window and sees Renfield get in his plane and take off, but, adopting Dees' motto, she publishes an article portraying Dees as the killer.


== Cast ==
Miguel Ferrer as Richard Dees
Julie Entwisle as Katherine Blair
Dan Monahan as Merton Morrison
Michael H. Moss as Dwight Renfield
John Bennes as Ezra Hannon
Beverly Skinner as Selida McCamon
Rob Wilds as Buck Kendall
Richard K. Olsen as Claire Bowie
Elizabeth McCormick as Ellen Sarch


== Production ==


=== Writing and casting ===
The Night Flier is based on the 1988 short story of the same title by Stephen King