Night Falls on Manhattan is a 1996 American crime drama film written and directed by Sidney Lumet. Based on the novel Tainted Evidence by Robert Daley, the plot centers on a newly elected district attorney played by Andy García, who is eager to stamp out corruption within the New York City Police Department. Ian Holm, James Gandolfini, Lena Olin, Ron Leibman, and Richard Dreyfuss feature in principal supporting roles.
The film was a co-production of Paramount Pictures and Spelling Films. Theatrically distributed by Paramount Pictures on May 16, 1997, Night Falls on Manhattan explores criminal law, political corruption, and the repercussions of violence. Following its initial release, it failed to garner any awards from mainstream organizations for its lead acting or production merits.
The film grossed nearly $10 million in domestic ticket receipts, and was met with mixed to positive critical reviews.


== Plot ==
NYPD detectives Liam Casey (Holm) and Joey Allegretto (Gandolfini) are conducting surveillance against Jordan Washington (Shiek Mahmud-Bey), a notorious drug dealer. On a tip from an informant, they venture into an apartment block where Washington is reported to be hiding. After Casey shoots the lock, Washington fires a submachine gun through his front door, seriously wounding Casey. Police backup units arrive and swarm the building, but Washington executes a cunning escape in a squad car after killing two cops. In a surprising move, District Attorney Morganstern (Leibman) appoints Casey's son Sean (García), an ex-cop and recently appointed ADA, to prosecute Washington when he is caught. In the process, he passes over the more experienced ADA Elihu Harrison (Feore), who plans to oppose him in an upcoming election.
At Washington's trial, his attorney Sam Vigoda (Dreyfuss) does not dispute his client's responsibility for killing the cops but argues that the police were intending to murder Washington. Washington claims that he had been bribing a group of corrupt cops, led by Kurt Kleinhoff, in return for protection while dealing drugs; Vigoda argues that Washington became a target when he refused to match an offer by a rival dealer, Carlos Alvarez, to give the cops more money. Although inexperienced, Sean mounts a strong argument questioning Washington's credibility and wins the case. Washington is sentenced to consecutive life terms without parole. A member of Vigoda's legal team, Peggy Lindstrom (Olin), begins an affair with Sean after the conclusion of the trial. In private, Vigoda discloses to Sean why he undertook Washington's defense: after his 15-year-old daughter died from a drug overdose, Vigoda has been determined to bring down the system of corrupt police enabling drug dealers.
After Morganstern suffers a heart attack and is unable to run for re-election, Sean is asked to run in his place. He wins the election over Harrison. Meanwhile, when Kleinhoff's decomposed body is discovered in the river, his address book reveals the names of several officers from precincts which responded to the Washington shooting. A number of officers confess their entanglement in the bribery and narcotics scandal. Sean confronts Allegretto, who admits that he took bribes while also colluding to murder Washington with fellow corrupted officers; he later commits suicide. Casey later discloses to Sean that he forged a judge's signature on Washington's arrest warrant–the original had expired on the day of the raid. Sean asks Morganstern, who is recovering at the hospital, for advice on how to deal with the scandal. Morganstern tells Sean that being DA will be a tough job, but he believes Sean "will be better at it than most".
Following a voluntary admission of guilt by Casey about the forgery in a private consultation with Judge Dominick Impelliteri (Chianese), the judge decides to fill out a new warrant, backdated to the day of the raid, which purposely obviates the technicality. He also suggests to Sean that he destroy the forged warr