Kitchen Nightmares, known in the U.K. as Ramsay's Kitchen Nightmares USA, is an American reality television series originally broadcast on Fox, in which chef Gordon Ramsay is invited by the owners to spend a week with a failing restaurant in an attempt to revive the business. Produced by ITV Studios America, it is based on the British show Ramsay's Kitchen Nightmares.
The show premiered September 19, 2007, on Fox. On June 23, 2014, Ramsay announced that he was ending the series; the final episode aired on September 12 that year. In June 2018, Gordon Ramsay's 24 Hours to Hell and Back, a new series with a premise much like Kitchen Nightmares but a shorter timeline, premiered on Fox. The show still hosts a YouTube channel with over 6.57 million subscribers. The channel presents highlights from the show, and has also shown selected full episodes of the show. In May 2023, Fox announced that the show would re-enter production for an eighth season, which premiered on September 25, 2023.


== Synopsis ==
Each episode of Kitchen Nightmares typically consists of a series of introductory clips and interviews of the specific restaurant before Gordon Ramsay's visit, emphasizing the subpar conditions of the restaurant. This is followed by Ramsay arriving to the restaurant for lunch, meeting the owner(s), and trying various items on their menu while making first impression observations of the restaurant. Chef Ramsay then consults the restaurant's chef(s) on his dining experience, which is almost exclusively negative. After this, every episode involves Ramsay observing a typical dinner service for the restaurant, it does not go well as the various issues of the restaurant are highlighted. Gordon Ramsay then in each episode inspects the conditions of the restaurant's kitchen and food storage compartments, uncovering even more issues. This is typically followed by meeting with the owners and/or staff to discuss the critical changes that need to be made. These changes are then shown, from additions to the items in the menu to the staff being trained and occasionally replaced to the restaurant being remodeled. After these revisions, the restaurant is relaunched, which predominantly ends with a more successful service. After the end of each relaunch, Ramsay addresses the restaurant's owner and staff one final time before leaving, wishing them well. At the end of episodes of later seasons, a follow-up segment is shown, showcasing the status of the restaurant in the weeks and months after Gordon Ramsay's visit. Each season after season one, an episode is dedicated to Ramsay revisiting some of the previous restaurants he visited to see what became of the restaurant and its staff. 


== Production ==
The show was produced by ITV Studios America and Optomen, in association with A. Smith & Co. Productions, with Arthur Smith, Kent Weed, and Patricia Llewellyn serving as executive producers.
In the UK, the series is broadcast under the name Kitchen Nightmares USA and Ramsay's Kitchen Nightmares USA on Channel 4, which also produced the original UK version. It is broadcast under this name to avoid confusion with the original UK version. UK airings of the US show feature an alternate soundtrack and mix, with less prominent musical stings, wild music, a lower level of vocal compression, and a different narrator to the US broadcast. It also airs uncensored, when shown after the watershed. Reruns, along with the British series, are frequently shown on BBC America.
On May 15, 2023, Fox announced that it would revive the series after a 10-year absence. Ramsay and his crew were spotted at several restaurants in the New York metropolitan area through the spring and summer of 2023. Some locations include a restaurant in Wayne, a pizzeria in Dumont, a bar and grill in Asbury Park, and a cafe in Saugerties.
Season eight premiered on September 25, 2023.


== Episodes ==


=== Season 1 (2007) ===


=== Season 2 (2008–09) ===


=== Season 3 (2010) ===
The third season 