Liliana Cavani (born 12 January 1933) is an Italian film director and screenwriter. Cavani became internationally known after the success of her 1974 feature film Il portiere di notte (The Night Porter). Her films have historical concerns. In addition to feature films and documentaries, she has also directed opera.


== Early life ==
Cavani was born in Carpi, near Modena in the regione of Emilia-Romagna. Cavani's father, an architect from Mantua, belonged to a conservative bourgeois family of landowners. "My father was an architect interested in urban development. He took me to museums. He had worked in urban planning in Baghdad in 1956, when Iraq was still under British control. My mother was very strong, very capable, and very sweet", Cavani explained in an interview. Her mother was passionate about films and took her to the movies every Sunday from an early age. On her mother's side, Cavani came from a working-class family of militant antifascists. Her maternal grandfather, a syndicalist, introduced her to the works of Engels, Marx and Bakunin.
She graduated in literature and philology at Bologna University in 1959, writing a dissertation on the fifteenth-century poet and nobleman Marsilio Pio. She had intended to become an archeologist, a profession she soon abandoned in order to pursue her passion for the moving image. She attended Rome's renowned Centro Sperimentale di Cinematografia. She studied documentary filmmaking and obtained her diploma with the short films Incontro notturno (1961), about the friendship between two men, a white man and a Senegalese, and L'evento (1962) about a group of tourists who killed for fun. 


== Film career and later life ==


=== Early films (1961–1965) ===
While attending film school, Cavani won a competition at RAI, Italy's national television network, and took a job there as a director of historical documentaries in 1961. Her professional career thus began making documentaries for RAI between 1961 and 1965, which included Storia del III Reich, (History of the Third Reich) (1962–1963), which chronicles the rise of the Nazi regime.
It was the first historical investigation of German totalitarianism to appear on television. Other documentaries are: L'età di Stalin ("The Stalin Years"), an investigation into the Soviet leader's years; La donna nella Resistenza (1965); Philippe Pétain, processo a Vichy, winner of the Golden Lion at Venice film festival in 1965 in the documentary section. In this period she also made Il giorno della pace, a four-hour documentary on immigration south-to-north within Italy.


=== Francesco di Assisi (1966) ===
Cavani made her first non-fiction feature film in 1966 with Francesco di Assisi (Francis of Assisi). Made for television and aired in two parts, it drew comparisons to the films of Roberto Rossellini and Pier Paolo Pasolini. Lou Castel portrays Francis of Assisi as a slightly depressed protester and an avid, albeit mad, supporter of armed brotherhood. The film was a critical success, but also received controversially. Called "heretical, blasphemous and offensive for the faith of the Italian people", it caused the first of many polemical reactions to Cavani's work.


=== Galileo (1968) ===
Her next film Galileo focuses on the seventeenth-century conflict between science and religion. Astronomer Galileo Galilei's heliocentric theories collide with the dogmas of the church, resulting in his interrogation by the Inquisition. Originally intended as a miniseries co-produced by Italian and Bulgarian film companies, radio and television company RAI refused to broadcast the finished film and sold the distribution rights to Cineriz.


=== The Cannibals (1970) ===
The Cannibals (I Cannibali), Cavani's first film to rely on an independent production company, uses the myth of Antigone to present the contemporary political state of Italy. The film, set in the industrial city of Milan, recounts the struggle of a young woman against the authorities that prevents burying