9½ Weeks is a 1986 American erotic romantic drama film directed by Adrian Lyne, and starring Kim Basinger and Mickey Rourke. Basinger portrays a New York City art gallery employee who has a brief yet intense affair with a mysterious Wall Street broker, played by Rourke. The screenplay by Sarah Kernochan, Zalman King and Patricia Louisianna Knop is adapted from the 1978 memoir of the same name by Austrian-American author Ingeborg Day, under the pseudonym "Elizabeth McNeill".
The film was completed in 1984, but did not get released until February 1986. Considered too explicit by its American distributor Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, the film was heavily edited for release in the United States, where it was a box office bomb, grossing $6.7 million on a $17 million budget. It also received mixed reviews at the time of its release. However, its soundtrack sold well and the film itself became a huge success internationally in its unedited version, particularly in Australia, Canada, France, Germany, and the United Kingdom, making $100 million worldwide. It has also acquired a large fanbase on video and DVD and has developed a cult following.


== Plot ==
Elizabeth McGraw, an employee at a SoHo art gallery, meets John Gray, a Wall Street arbitrageur, at a Chinese grocer, and later at a street fair where he buys her an expensive scarf. They start dating, but John's strange behavior escalates, and he gives her an expensive gold watch with instructions to think about him touching her at noon every day. Elizabeth goes further and masturbates at work at the designated time.
Elizabeth wants to introduce John to her friends, but he only wants to see her in the evenings and tells her to see her friends during the day. One evening, she is alone in his apartment and finds a photo of him with another woman named April Tover. When John calls and asks if she went through his things, she admits it. He threatens to punish her, and when he returns home, he orders her to face the wall for a spanking. Elizabeth tries to leave, but the door is locked. John slaps her, she slaps him back, and he rapes her. Despite this, Elizabeth falls in love with John, so she starts to enjoy his dominant behavior and has sex with him on top of a clock tower.
John takes control of all aspects of Elizabeth's life, from what she wears and eats to how he brushes her hair and feeds her. Elizabeth becomes increasingly dependent on John, losing her sense of self. One day, she follows John to work and brings him lunch, telling him she wants to "be one of the guys". John arranges for her to crossdress for a rendezvous at a bar at the Algonquin Hotel, but after the exit they are mistaken for a gay couple and attacked by a group of tramps in an alley. Elizabeth stabs one of the attackers in the buttocks, and they flee. Excited from the incident, Elizabeth declares her love for John, strips, reveals wet informal undergarments, and has passionate sex with him at the scene of the crime.
John starts to make their BDSM-style relationship more apparent in public. He dares her to shoplift a necklace, and she does so. At the bedding section in Bloomingdale's, he asks Elizabeth to "spread your legs for daddy" in front of the saleswoman. At an equestrian store, he whips Elizabeth on the leg with a riding crop and tells the salesman, "I'll take this one." Later that evening, Elizabeth performs a striptease at John's apartment. 
Someday after, John asks Elizabeth to crawl and pick up money as he throws it on the floor of his office. Elizabeth initially obliges but then objects, and John takes off his belt, whipping the floor, almost hitting her. Elizabeth cries and protests, but John continues to insist that she crawl and pick up the money. She eventually does so before throwing the money in John's face and declaring that she hates the game.
Elizabeth is confident and sexy at home with John, but she becomes withdrawn at work and thinks about her ex-husband Bruce, who starts dating her co-worker and ro