North by Northwest is a 1959 American spy thriller film produced and directed by Alfred Hitchcock, and starring Cary Grant, Eva Marie Saint, and James Mason. The screenplay was by Ernest Lehman, who wanted to write "the Hitchcock picture to end all Hitchcock pictures".
North by Northwest is a tale of mistaken identity, with an innocent man pursued across the United States by agents of a mysterious organization trying to prevent him from blocking their plan to smuggle microfilm, which contains government secrets, out of the country. This is one of several Hitchcock films that feature a music score by Bernard Herrmann and an opening title sequence by graphic designer Saul Bass, and was the first to feature extended use of kinetic typography in its opening credits.
North by Northwest is listed among the canonical Hitchcock films of the 1950s and is often listed among the greatest films of all time. It was selected in 1995 for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant". After its first screening, reviewers for The New Yorker and The New York Times immediately hailed it as a masterpiece of comedic, sophisticated self-parody.


== Plot ==
In 1958 New York City, a waiter pages George Kaplan at the Plaza Hotel's Oak Room restaurant at the request of thugs. As advertising executive Roger Thornhill summons the same waiter, he is mistaken for Kaplan, kidnapped by the thugs, and brought to the estate of Lester Townsend in Glen Cove. He is interrogated by Phillip Vandamm, a Cold War spy against the United States, posing as Townsend. Vandamm arranges Thornhill's death in a staged drunk-driving crash. Thornhill survives, but fails to convince his mother or the police of what happened. Revisiting the estate, Thornhill learns Townsend is a United Nations diplomat.
Thornhill and his mother go to Kaplan's empty hotel room at the Plaza, where the thugs have followed him and begin their pursuit. Thornhill heads to the U.N. General Assembly Building to meet Townsend, who he sees is not Vandamm. One of the pursuing thugs throws a knife, killing Townsend, who collapses in Thornhill's arms. Thornhill is photographed as he grabs the knife, giving the appearance that he is the murderer; he then flees, attempting to find the real Kaplan. The "United States Intelligence Agency"  realizes that Thornhill has been mistaken for Kaplan, but their chief, "the Professor", decides against rescuing him for fear of compromising their operation: Kaplan is a non-existent agent they created to confuse and distract Vandamm.
Thornhill sneaks aboard the 20th Century Limited train to Chicago, where he meets Eve Kendall, who hides him from the police. The two establish a relationship—on Kendall's part because she is secretly working with Vandamm—and she tells Thornhill that she has arranged a meeting with Kaplan at a rural bus stop in the middle of flat countryside. Thornhill waits there, but is attacked by a crop duster biplane. After taking cover in a cornfield, he attempts to halt a tank truck; it brakes, the airplane crashes into it, and he steals a pickup truck in the ensuing confusion. Thornhill reaches Kaplan's hotel in Chicago and learns that Kaplan had checked out before the time when Kendall claimed she talked to him. Thornhill goes to her room and confronts her, but she leaves. He tracks her to an art auction, where he finds Vandamm purchasing a Mexican Purépecha statue.

Vandamm leaves his henchmen to deal with Thornhill. To escape, Thornhill disrupts the auction until police are called to remove him. He says he is the fugitive murderer, but the Professor intervenes and tells him that Kaplan was a fiction and their real agent is Eve Kendall. Vandamm lives near Mount Rushmore, and they think he will be leaving the country by plane from there.
Thornhill agrees to help maintain Kendall's cover. At the Mount Rushmore visitor center, now willingly playing the r