Nothing but Trouble is a 1991 American comedy horror film written and directed by Dan Aykroyd in his directorial debut, based on a story by his brother Peter, and starring Chevy Chase, Dan Aykroyd (in a dual role), John Candy (in a dual role), and Demi Moore. It tells the story of two yuppies and the clients of one of them who are taken to court for running a stop sign in the bizarre, financially bankrupt small town of Valkenvania, which is dominated by a 106-year-old judge. Tupac Shakur made his acting debut, as a member of the rap group Digital Underground.
Production commenced in 1990 under the title Git, which was changed in production to Valkenvania. Subsequently, prior to release, Warner Bros. changed the title to Nothing but Trouble; in a press statement released in December 1990, Aykroyd said that he preferred the Valkenvania title.
Upon release, the film was largely panned, with criticism directed at its humor, screenplay, tone and direction. The tone was compared by critics to films such as Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein, Psycho, The Texas Chainsaw Massacre series and The Rocky Horror Picture Show, as well as The Munsters, and the humor derived from sketch comedy and gross-out humor. Aykroyd received the Worst Supporting Actor Razzie at the 12th Golden Raspberry Awards.


== Plot ==
While hosting a party in his Manhattan penthouse, financial publisher Chris Thorne meets lawyer Diane Lightson and agrees to escort her to consult a client in Atlantic City the following day. Thorne's clients, obnoxious but wealthy Brazilian siblings Fausto and Renalda Squiriniszu, meet up with them and invite themselves along.
Chris takes a detour off of the New Jersey Turnpike, ultimately ending up in the run-down village of Valkenvania. After running a stop sign and subsequently attempting to escape pursuing chief of police Dennis Valkenheiser, the group is captured and taken before his 106-year-old grandfather, Judge Alvin Valkenheiser. After Chris offends Alvin, the yuppies are locked in a hidden room under the courthouse to be judged the next day, and they overhear Alvin violently executing a group of convicted drug dealers in a deadly roller coaster nicknamed "Mr. Bonestripper".
Chris, Diane, and the Brazilians attend Alvin's dinner, learning that Alvin is holding them there as retribution for a coal deal which the Valkenheiser family blames for their poverty as Chris keeps correcting him that he's a financial publisher and not a banker. The group attempts an escape, but Alvin's granddaughter Eldona captures Chris and Diane. After being chased by Dennis' cousin Miss Purdah, the Brazilians escape by cutting a deal with Dennis, who decides to escape with them.
Alvin holds Chris and Diane hostage, but they eventually escape, get lost through hidden hallways and slides and become separated. Escaping into the property's salvage yard, Diane meets and befriends Alvin's severely deformed grandchildren Bobo and Lil' Debbull who are barred from living in the house. However, she also notices Eldona destroying Chris's BMW 733i. Alvin catches Chris sneaking into his personal quarters and punishes him per house policy, which decrees that Chris must marry Eldona.
Meanwhile in the court room, Digital Underground is being held on charges of speeding. Alvin releases them after being charmed by an impromptu rap performance. He also asks them to stay as witnesses for the wedding, which Chris reluctantly goes through with in exchange for his life, but is later caught pleading with the band to help him escape. The band leaves without understanding him, and Alvin furiously sentences Chris to die in "Mr. Bonestripper". The machine breaks down just before Chris is fed into it, and he escapes. Alvin nearly kills Diane with another claw contraption known as the Gradertine, but Chris retrieves her at the last second and the two jump on a freight train back to New York.
After the two report their plight to the authorities, local and state police raid Al