Megiddo: The Omega Code 2 is a 2001 religious science fiction-adventure film, directed by Brian Trenchard-Smith and starring Michael York, Michael Biehn, Diane Venora, R. Lee Ermey, Udo Kier and Franco Nero. It is a follow-up to the 1999 film The Omega Code, serving as part prequel and part alternate retelling of the first film. It has a significantly larger budget ($20 million) than its predecessor ($7.6 million). Lead actor York detailed the making of the film in a journal which he then published in book form, titled Dispatches from Armageddon.


== Plot ==
Stone Alexander is a six-year-old boy whose mother has died giving birth to his younger brother, David. During a party at his influential father's home, Stone is left alone with David, who is in his crib. As Stone stares into the fireplace, a fiery force engulfs the boy, possessing him. Stone attempts to burn his baby brother, but David is saved by their nanny. Their father, Daniel (David Hedison), sends Stone away to a military academy in Italy for his education, under the guidance of General Francini (Franco Nero).
Not long after arriving at the academy, he is drawn to a church where he meets his demonic Guardian (Udo Kier) (who later becomes Stone's false prophet), and participates in a black mass ceremony. Years pass, and although Stone is periodically abused by some of his classmates, he eventually earns their respect, becoming the top student in his class. After graduating, Stone meets his younger brother David (Chad Michael Murray), who is now a teenager. Soon after graduation, Stone marries his Italian girlfriend, Gabriella, the daughter of General Francini. The General is initially against their marriage, but Stone summons two smoke-like demons to intimidate the General into giving in.
Eventually, Stone became President of the European Union He uses his seat of power to dissolve the United Nations and create a world government called the World Union. To consolidate his power, Stone pressures the President of the United States Richard Benson (R. Lee Ermey) to join his global community. Stone summons Benson to meet with him in Rome. Before departing for Italy, President Benson ordered the U.S. Navy's Sixth Fleet to take up position off of the coast of Italy in the event of an emergency.
Accompanying the president on his flight to Italy is David Alexander (Michael Biehn), who is now the Vice President of the United States, and the president's military aide, U.S. Marine Colonel Rick Howard (Gil Colon). During an informal meeting on Air Force One, David and Col. Howard warned the president to keep his distance from Stone, due to a CIA report, which indicates that over 200 people who had opposed Stone in the past had died under questionable circumstances after close contact. Unfortunately, Benson fails to grasp just how ruthless Stone is; Stone kills him with a supernaturally induced heart attack. David is sworn in as the new President at the hour of President Benson's death.
Much to Stone's disappointment, his brother also refuses to join his New World Order. Secretary of State Breckenridge (Jim Metzler), however, wants the United States to join the global community aligned with Stone. After failing to convince David to fall in line with the World Union, he publicizes a doctored video of David murdering his father. In reality, it was Stone who killed him.
Breckenridge orders the FBI to arrest the president. After a heated exchange of gunfire between the Secret Service detail and the FBI agents, the president escapes by helicopter to Norfolk Naval Base, where the U.S. Navy brass provides him with transport to the Sixth Fleet on an amphibious assault ship. After arriving, David orders a special forces raid on Stone's castle headquarters in Rome; however, he discovers that Stone is already in Israel. David finds Gabriella (Diane Venora) in the dungeon, confined there by the Guardian after she witnessed some of Stone's demonic powers. She dies in David's arms after profes