Out of Africa is a 1985 American epic romantic drama film directed and produced by Sydney Pollack, and starring Meryl Streep and Robert Redford. The film is based loosely on the 1937 autobiographical book Out of Africa written by Isak Dinesen (the pseudonym of Danish author Karen Blixen), with additional material from Dinesen's 1960 book Shadows on the Grass and other sources.
The book was adapted into a screenplay by the writer Kurt Luedtke, and filmed in 1984. Streep played Karen Blixen, Redford played Denys Finch Hatton and Klaus Maria Brandauer played Baron Bror Blixen. Others in the film include Michael Kitchen as Berkeley Cole, Malick Bowens as Farah, Stephen Kinyanjui as the Chief, Michael Gough as Lord Delamere, Suzanna Hamilton as Felicity, and the model and actress Iman as Mariammo. The film received generally positive reviews from critics. It was also a commercial success and won seven Academy Awards including Best Picture and Best Director for Pollack.


== Plot ==
Karen Blixen recalls her life in Africa, where she moved in 1913 as an unmarried, wealthy Dane.
After having been spurned by her Swedish nobleman lover, she asks his brother, with whom she is good friends, Baron Bror Blixen, to marry out of mutual convenience, and they move to the vicinity of Nairobi, British East Africa.  Using her funds, he is to set up a dairy ranch, with her joining him a few months later, at which time they will marry. En route to Nairobi, her train is hailed by a big-game hunter named Denys Finch Hatton, who knows her fiancé and entrusts his haul of ivory to her.
She is greeted at the railway station by Farah, the Somali headman hired by Bror, who is nowhere to be found. She is taken to the recently founded Muthaiga Club. She enters the men-only salon to ask for her husband and, because of her gender, is asked to leave. Karen and Bror marry before the day is out, and she becomes Baroness Blixen.
Karen learns that Bror has changed their agreed-upon plan and has spent her money to establish a coffee farm, and that the farm is at too high an elevation to offer much chance of success. She needs Bror's help in building and managing the farm, but his interest is more in guiding game hunting safaris than in farming.
Karen comes to love Africa and the African people, and is taken in by the breathtaking view of the nearby Ngong Hills and the Great Rift Valley beyond. She looks after the Kikuyu people who are squatting on her land, establishes a school for them, helps with their medical needs, and arbitrates their disputes. Meanwhile, she also attempts to establish a formal European homelife on par with the other upper class colonists in the area. She becomes friends with a young woman, Felicity (whose character is based on a young Beryl Markham). Eventually, Karen and Bror's feelings for one another deepen and they consummate their marriage. However, despite his genuine feelings for Karen, Bror continues to pursue trysts with other women. To fill her evenings, Karen makes up imaginative stories to entertain her visitors.
As the First World War reaches East Africa, the colonists form a militia led by the colonial patriarch Lord Delamere, which includes Denys and Bror among their number. A military expedition sets out in search of the forces from the neighboring German colony of German East Africa. Responding to the militia's need for supplies, Karen leads a difficult expedition to find them and returns safely. 
Karen discovers that Bror has given her syphilis. As she is unable to receive proper treatment in Nairobi, she returns to Denmark for treatment and recuperation. Bror agrees to manage the farm while she is away. When she returns, now unable to bear children, Bror resumes his safari work, and they begin to live separately when she discovers he is still a philanderer. Later, Karen and Denys share an ambivalent kiss at a New Year's party. 
The relationship between Karen and Denys develops, and he comes to live with her. Denys acquires a 