General Logistics Systems B.V. (GLS) is a parcel services provider operating in Europe and North America.


== History ==
The company was known as German Parcel when it was founded in 1989 by Rico Back. It was subsequently renamed GLS and is now a subsidiary of International Distributions Services.
In 2017, GLS acquired the California-based parcel delivery company Golden State Overnight (GSO) Delivery Service, as well as Postal Express. GSO was renamed GLS-US in December 2019.
In September 2018 GLS acquired the Canadian parcel delivery company Dicom, expanding operations in North America and Europe. In October 2021 GLS acquired the Canadian logistics company Mid-Nite Sun Transportation Ltd, operating under Rosenau Transport, further expanding into the Canadian market.


== Criticism ==
In 2010 the parcel service was 'passed' a review by the German Consumers' Organization. The handling and wrong parcel pick-ups were criticized. The review was repeated in 2014 with similar results. In November 2019 the German magazine Stern published statistics with a 'shock indicator/goods damaged' value of 44,4%.
In mid-September 2016, hundreds of parcel delivery workers took strike action in the Italian cities of Bergamo, Brescia, Piacenza, Bologna and Parma against GLS and its subcontractors to protest against poor working conditions. On the night of 14–15 September 2016, a van broke through a picket line formed by workers in front of the plant operated by GLS subcontractor SEAM in Piacenza. The van struck and killed Egyptian worker Abd Elsalam Ahmed Eldanf. It was reported that eyewitnesses heard the plant's Chief of Staff ordering the driver to break through the picket line. The Piacenza Prosecutor's office concluded that no strike or protest was taking place at that moment and therefore ruled the death was a car accident. The driver was subsequently released, prompting 7,000 workers to take to the streets in Piacenza and at other GLS offices in Italy, as well as from other firms.


== References ==


== External sources ==
 Media related to General Logistics Systems at Wikimedia Commons

Official website