Pale Rider is a 1985 American Western film produced and directed by Clint Eastwood, who also stars in the lead role. The title is a reference to the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse, as the pale horse's ghost rider (Eastwood) represents Death. The film, which took in over $41 million at the box office, became the highest-grossing Western of the 1980s.


== Plot ==
In the Old West, outside LaHood, California in Carbon Canyon, mining baron Coy LaHood is waging a war of intimidation against independent prospectors and their families – including Hull Barret, who is courting Sarah Wheeler. Sarah's teenage daughter, Megan – desperate for deliverance from LaHood after a gang of his men attack the mining camp and kill her dog – prays for a miracle. Shortly afterward, a man atop a pale horse rides into Carbon Canyon. When Hull heads to town to pick up supplies, four of Lahood's men beat him with axe handles before the stranger fights them off with his own axe handle. Hull then invites his rescuer to dinner and, while the stranger is washing, notices what appears to be six bullet wounds in his back. When the stranger arrives at the dining table, he is wearing a clerical collar and is thereafter referred to as "Preacher". Coy LaHood's son, Joshua, attempts to scare off the Preacher with a gigantic workman named Club. Preacher, however, disables Club with a sledgehammer blow to the groin.
Coy returns from Sacramento, learns of the Preacher's arrival, and unsuccessfully attempts to bribe and then threaten him. At Preacher's suggestion, LaHood then offers the miners $1,000 per claim provided they evacuate within 24 hours. LaHood says he plans to hire the services of a corrupt marshal named Stockburn to clear them out if they refuse. The miners ultimately reject LaHood's offer, despite Preacher warning them about Stockburn. Megan expresses her love for Preacher, but he gently rebuffs her. Megan angrily assumes Preacher is really in love with Sarah. Preacher leaves Carbon Canyon for another town where he stops at a Wells Fargo bank. At the bank, he retrieves two pistols from a security box and removes his clerical collar. LaHood's men dam the creek, which forces the miners to prospect a dry bed. Megan rides into LaHood's camp, where Joshua shows her the blasting operation before he attempts to rape her. Preacher arrives on horseback, disarms Joshua and shoots him through the hand.
Stockburn and his deputies arrive in LaHood. Coy gives him a rough description of the Preacher, which startles Stockburn, because the man Coy is describing is dead. Spider Conway, one of the miners and Coy's former partner, discovers a large gold nugget in the dry creek bed and rides into town with his teenage sons, where he yells drunken abuse at LaHood from the street. Stockburn and his deputies gun him down, with Stockburn himself shooting Spider in the head. Stockburn sends a message that he wants Preacher to meet him in town the next morning. Sarah begs Preacher not to go, and tells him she will marry Hull, despite her feelings for Preacher.
The following day, Preacher and Hull blow up LaHood's mining site with dynamite. To stop Hull from following him, Preacher scares off Hull's horse and rides into town alone. In the gunfight that follows, he kills all of LaHood's men when they attack him, except for two who run away. Then, one by one, he kills all six of Stockburn's deputies. In the final shootout, Stockburn recognizes Preacher in disbelief before he is shot in the chest six times, leaving six exit wounds in his back similar to the wounds on Preacher's back. Finally, Preacher kills him with a shot to the head. LaHood, watching from his office, aims a rifle at the Preacher but is shot dead by Hull, who walked all the way into town.
Preacher nods at Hull and rides off toward the snow-capped mountains. Megan arrives and, seeing Preacher riding away, shouts her love and thanks to him.


== Cast ==


== Production ==
Pale Rider was primarily filmed in the Boulder 