The Palm Beach Story is a 1942 screwball comedy film written and directed by Preston Sturges, and starring Claudette Colbert, Joel McCrea, Mary Astor and Rudy Vallée. Victor Young contributed the musical score, including a fast-paced variation of the William Tell Overture for the opening scenes. Typical of a Sturges film, the pacing and dialogue of The Palm Beach Story are very fast.  The film was distributed by Paramount Pictures.


== Plot ==
Inventor Tom Jeffers and his wife Gerry are down on their luck financially. Married for five years, the couple is still waiting for Tom's success. Anxious for the finer things in a life, Gerry decides that they both would be better off if they split. But before she can act, she ends up entangled with the Wienie King, a strange older man being shown around her apartment with his wife by a building manager anxious to rent it out from beneath his delinquent tenants. Sympathetic to her plight – and utterly taken by her youth and charm – the man gives her $700 from a giant roll of cash he keeps in his pocket. This is enough to get their rent current, pay off their most urgent bills, buy a new dress, take Tom to an expensive dinner, and still leave $14 and change in pocket money for Tom, and then she says she's leaving him.
In spite of a night of amour following their tipsy return home after their dinner, she awakens early, packs a bag, and makes for the train station. Bound for Palm Beach, Florida, her plan is to get a divorce, meet and marry a wealthy man who can both give her what she craves and also help Tom. Penniless, and repeatedly escaping from Tom's clutches, she is finally invited to travel for free as a guest on the private car of the well-to-do and soused Ale and Quail Club.
When the Club proves too rowdy and repeatedly fire off hunting rifles in the private car, nearly killing their bartender, she flees to the upper berth of a Pullman car, in the process meeting the meek, eccentric, amiable, and bespectacled John D. Hackensacker III (played by Rudy Vallée), who immediately falls for her.

Left without her clothes or purse in the chaos of her flight from the Ale and Quail revelry, she willingly accepts Hackensacker's chivalrous charity, although she doesn't know who he is. This takes a dramatic turn towards extravagance during a shopping spree for ladies' finery he instigates in Jacksonville, swirling from trifles to haute couture and jewelry encrusted with precious stones.
Only when Hackensacker hands the store manager a card telling him to charge it all to him is it revealed he is the third richest man in the world and owner of the Erl King, a fabulous yacht, which the twosome board for the final leg of the journey to Palm Beach.
Back in New York, the now despondent Tom receives the same kind of generous no-strings-attached charity from the Wienie King he had accused Gerry of trading sexual favors with, which helps clear his mind. The King encourages him to rent a plane, fly to Florida, and show up with a bouquet of roses to win back his bride.
Arriving in Palm Beach, Tom is directed to the dock and Hackensacker's yacht. There he sees the affectionate new couple aboard. Failing to run him off on shore, a flustered Gerry introduces Tom as her brother, Captain McGlue. Hackensacker's oft-married, man-hungry sister, Princess Centimillia (Mary Astor), is immediately smitten with Tom, dismissing her current lover, the bumbling Toto, by asking him to retrieve a handkerchief.
When Gerry tells Hackensacker, who is working his way to propose to her, that her "brother" is a partner with her husband in the same investment, Hackensacker agrees to back it, saying he likes the Captain and it will keep it "all in the family" once they are married.
Invited to stay at the Princess' estate, the Jeffers' couple valiantly try to maintain their farce – while Tom reluctantly wrangles to win Gerry back, and Gerry determinedly seeks to stick to her original plan. Until, to the strains of Hackensacker cr