The Parent Trap is a 1998 American romantic comedy film directed and co-written by Nancy Meyers in her feature directorial debut, and produced and co-written by Charles Shyer. It is a remake of the 1961 film of the same name and an adaptation of Erich Kästner's 1949 German novel Lisa and Lottie (Das doppelte Lottchen).
Dennis Quaid and Natasha Richardson star as a divorced couple who separated shortly after their identical twin daughters' birth; Lindsay Lohan stars (in her film debut) as both twins, Hallie Parker and Annie James, who are fortuitously reunited at summer camp after being separated at birth. David Swift wrote the screenplay for the original 1961 film based on Lottie and Lisa. Swift is credited along with Meyers and Shyer as co-writers of the 1998 version.
The film premiered in Los Angeles on July 20, 1998, and was theatrically released in the United States on July 29, and was a box-office hit, grossing $92.1 million against a $15 million budget. It received positive reviews from critics, with Lohan's performance, in particular, earning high praise.


== Plot ==
In 1986, Nick Parker and Elizabeth James meet and fall in love on the Queen Elizabeth 2. They eventually marry and have twin daughters, Hallie and Annie. However, they divorce shortly after the twins' birth. Nick gains custody over Hallie and raises her on his vineyard in Napa, California, while Elizabeth raises Annie in London, England, where she works as a wedding gown designer.
Eleven years and nine months later, the twins are coincidentally sent to the same summer camp, Camp Walden, where they form an intense rivalry. After Hallie and her friends perform a dangerous prank on Annie's cabin, the twins are sent to the isolation cabin, where they begin to bond over their similarities. After discovering the parallels between their eerily similar family situations, they show one another a photograph of their parents and realize that they are twins who were separated at birth. They decide to switch places to convince their parents to reconcile; each girl trains the other to act like her.
In London, Hallie happily meets Elizabeth, the family butler Martin, and her maternal grandfather Charles, while Annie meets Nick and their family nanny Chessy in California. Much to Annie's dismay, she learns that Nick is engaged to Meredith Blake, a 26-year-old gold digger publicist from San Francisco who only wants to marry Nick for his fortune. Meredith is planning on sending Hallie to boarding school once she and Nick get married. Annie phones Hallie and implores her to bring their mother to California to try and break up Nick and Meredith, but Hallie refuses, desperate to spend more one-on-one time with Elizabeth.
After Chessy notices changes in "Hallie's" behavior, Annie confesses her identity to Chessy, and Chessy agrees to keep it a secret from Nick. While on the phone with Annie discussing Nick's impending wedding to Meredith, Hallie is caught by Charles, who encourages her to tell Elizabeth the truth. After telling Elizabeth the truth, the two decide to travel to California to establish joint custody of the twins between each parent.
The twins, with the help of Martin and Chessy, arrange for a meeting between Nick and Elizabeth at the Stafford Hotel in California. Upon reuniting with Elizabeth, Nick learns that he has had Annie with him since the end of camp, though he is delighted by this. Elizabeth also meets Meredith and learns of her engagement with Nick. Annie and Hallie attempt to recreate the night their parents met by arranging dinner on a yacht. Nick and Elizabeth discuss their breakup, which occurred when Elizabeth ran off after a fight, secretly hoping that Nick would follow her. They agree on shared custody but decide against resuming their relationship. Elizabeth plans to fly back to London with Annie the next day, but the twins refuse to reveal which one is which unless the entire family takes a camping trip. Elizabeth insists that Meredith go in her 