The Pelican Brief is a 1993 American legal thriller film based on the 1992 novel by John Grisham. Directed by Alan J. Pakula, the film stars Julia Roberts in the role of young law student Darby Shaw and Denzel Washington as Washington Herald reporter Gray Grantham. The film, which features music composed by James Horner, was the last film that featured Pakula as both writer and director before his death.


== Plot ==
An assassin named Khamel kills two elder Supreme Court justices, Jensen and Rosenberg. Tulane University law student Darby Shaw writes a legal brief detailing her theory on why they were killed. Her law professor and lover Thomas Callahan, a former clerk of Rosenberg's, reads the brief and gives a copy to Gavin Verheek, special counsel to the director of the FBI. Soon after, Callahan is killed in a car explosion, which Darby barely escapes unhurt. Realizing her brief was accurate, she goes into hiding and reaches out to Verheek.
An informant calling himself Garcia contacts Washington Herald reporter Gray Grantham about the assassinations but disappears. Darby also contacts Grantham. Meanwhile, a friend tells Darby that her computer, disks, and files have disappeared from her home. Darby is attacked at her hotel hideout but escapes. She and Verheek arrange to meet, but Khamel kills Verheek and impersonates him at the meeting. Before Khamel can kill Darby, an unknown person fatally shoots him in public square.
Darby meets Grantham in New York City and shares the theory expressed in her brief: the assassinations were done for oil tycoon Victor Mattiece, who intends to drill the oil found beneath a Louisiana marshland that is habitat for an endangered sub-species of brown pelicans. A court appeal to deny Mattiece the drilling rights is expected to reach the Supreme Court. Darby surmised that Mattiece, hoping to turn the case in his favor, is behind the two justices' murders, as they shared similar environment protection views. As a generous donor to the president, Mattiece expects him to appoint justices favoring oil and gas exploitation over environmental issues while the next president may not.
Grantham's informant, Garcia, is actually Curtis Morgan, a lawyer in the oil and gas division at a Washington, D.C. law firm. Darby pretends to have an appointment with Morgan, but learns he was recently killed in a mugging. Suspecting his murder was related to the incriminating information, she and Grantham visit his widow. She gives them a key to a safe deposit box and Darby retrieves its contents. After barely escaping a car bomb, the two arrive at the Washington Herald. They and Grantham's editors review the document and tape found in the box. The tape corroborates Darby's theory, and Morgan's documents verify that Mattiece ordered the justices' assassinations. Based on this evidence, Grantham writes his story. FBI Director Voyles confirms to Grantham that Darby's "Pelican Brief" was delivered to the White House. He reveals the president ordered the FBI to "back off," and that the CIA is investigating Mattiece. One agent killed Khamel to save Darby. The FBI flies Darby to a safe location under the United States Federal Witness Protection Program.
Sometime later, Darby watches a TV interview with Grantham that reveals Mattiece, four aides and lawyers have been indicted, the president's chief of staff Fletcher Coal has resigned. The president (who received $4.2 million in contributions from Mattiece) is unlikely to run for reelection. Grantham deflects speculation that Darby is fictional but agrees she is "almost" too good to be true, causing Darby to smile.


== Cast ==


== Production ==
In October 1991, Daily Variety announced Alan J. Pakula's involvement in writing, directing, and producing a film adaptation of John Grisham's novel The Pelican Brief. Carolco Pictures, with whom Pakula had a first-look agreement, secured the film rights for $1.3 million. Initial plans outlined John Grisham drafting the first script itera