A prison, also known as a jail, gaol, penitentiary, detention center, correction center, correctional facility, or remand center, is a facility where people are confined against their will and denied their liberty under the authority of the state, generally as punishment for various crimes. Authorities most commonly use prisons within a criminal-justice system: people charged with crimes may be imprisoned until their trial; those who have pled or been found guilty of crimes at trial may be  sentenced to a specified period of imprisonment.
Prisons can also be used as a tool of political repression by authoritarian regimes who detain perceived opponents for political crimes, often without a fair trial or due process; this use is illegal under most forms of international law governing fair administration of justice. In times of war, belligerents or neutral countries may detain prisoners of war or detainees in military prisons or in prisoner-of-war camps. At any time, states may imprison civilians - sometimes large groups of civilians - in internment camps.


== Naming ==
In American English, the terms prison and jail have separate definitions, though this is not always adhered to in casual speech. A prison or penitentiary holds people for longer periods of time, such as many years, and is operated by a state or federal government. A jail holds people for shorter periods of time or for pre-trial detention and is usually operated by a local government, typically the county sheriff. Outside of North America, prison and jail often have the same meaning.
In New Zealand, the terms "jail" and "prison" are commonly used, although the terms "correctional facility" and "prison" among others are in official usage. In Papua New Guinea, "prison" is officially used, although "jail" is widely understood and more common in usage. In Australia, the words "gaol", "jail" and "prison" are commonly used. The spelling "gaol" was in official use in the past, and many historical gaols are now tourist attractions, such as the Maitland Gaol. Officially, the term "correctional centre" is used for almost all prisons in New South Wales and Queensland, while other states and territories use a variety of names. "Prison" is officially used for some facilities in South Australia, Victoria and Western Australia. Youth prisons in Australia are referred to as "youth correctional facilities" or "youth detention centres" among other names, depending on the jurisdiction.


== History ==


=== Ancient and medieval ===

The use of prisons can be traced back to the rise of the state as a form of social organization.
The Book of Genesis, written six centuries before Christ, contains the story of Joseph who is put in a prison in Egypt, where other prisoners are (Genesis 40). The prophet Micaiah was put in prison by Ahab around 850 BC, to be given "the bread of affliction and the water of affliction" until Ahab returned in peace from a military expedition (but he was killed in the battle, 1 Kings 22). The prophet Jeremiah was put in prison shortly before the Babylonian Captivity in 587 BC (Jeremiah 37).
Some Ancient Greek philosophers, such as Plato, began to develop ideas of using punishment to reform offenders instead of for retribution. Imprisonment as a penalty was used initially for those who could not afford to pay their fines. Eventually, since impoverished Athenians could not pay their fines, leading to indefinite periods of imprisonment, time limits were set instead. The prison in ancient Athens was known as the desmoterion ("place of chains").
The Romans were among the first to use prisons as a form of punishment rather than simply for detention. A variety of existing structures were used to house prisoners, such as metal cages, basements of public buildings, and quarries. One of the most notable Roman prisons was the Mamertine Prison, established around 640 B.C. by Ancus Marcius. The Mamertine Prison was located within a sewer system beneath ancient Rome and cont