The Phantom of the Opera is a 2004 British-American musical romantic drama film based on Andrew Lloyd Webber's musical of the same name, which in turn is based on Gaston Leroux's novel of the same name. Produced and co-written by Lloyd Webber and directed by Joel Schumacher, it stars Gerard Butler as the titular character, with Emmy Rossum, Patrick Wilson, Miranda Richardson, Minnie Driver, Simon Callow, Ciarán Hinds, Victor McGuire and Jennifer Ellison in supporting roles.
The film was announced in 1989, although production did not start until 2002 due to Lloyd Webber's divorce and Schumacher's busy career. It was shot entirely at Pinewood Studios, with scenery created with miniatures and computer graphics. Rossum, Wilson and Driver had singing experience, but Butler had none and was provided with music lessons prior to filming. The Phantom of the Opera grossed $154.6 million worldwide. It received mixed reviews from critics, with praise for the visuals and acting, particularly the performances of Butler, Rossum and Wilson, but criticism towards the writing, direction and unnecessary deviations from the stage version.


== Plot ==
In 1919, a public auction is held to clear a dilapidated Parisian opera house. Among the attendees is the elderly Viscount Raoul de Chagny, who bids against Madame Giry, the retired ballet instructor of the theatre, for a music box shaped like a barrel organ with the figure of a monkey attached to it. The auctioneer then presents a repaired chandelier, relating it to "the strange affair of the Phantom of the Opera". As it is hoisted back up into place, the story moves back to 1870.
The theatre prepares for the performance of the grand opera Hannibal, starring its leading soprano, Carlotta. Theatre manager Monsieur Lefèvre announces his plans to retire, leaving the theatre under the ownership of scrappers Richard Firmin and Gilles André, who introduce Raoul as their patron. One of the dancers, orphan Christine Daaé, recognizes Raoul as her childhood sweetheart and wonders if he will also acknowledge her, but he leaves without seeing her. Carlotta refuses to perform after being tormented for three years by the theatre's resident "Opera Ghost", a mysterious figure said to live in the catacombs below. Facing the performance's cancellation, Giry suggests that Christine stands in for her. Christine displays her singing talents and is a massive success on opening night.
After the performance, Christine tells her best friend Meg, Giry's daughter, that she is being coached by an unearthly tutor she calls the "Angel of Music" sent by her late father following his death. Christine reunites with Raoul, in whom she confides that she has been visited by the Angel of Music, but he dismisses the belief. That night, the masked Opera Ghost, better known as the "Phantom of the Opera" and also revealed to be the Angel of Music, appears before Christine from her dressing room's mirror, leading her away to his underground lair. There, the Phantom reveals his love for her, but when he presents her a mannequin of her dressed in a wedding dress he made for her, Christine faints and she sleeps in the Phantom's lair, being presumed missing by the opera house's staff at this point.
When Christine awakens the next morning and sees the Phantom, she removes his mask out of curiosity. The Phantom reacts violently and covers his face with his hand. After the duo has a moment of understanding, Christine returns the mask and the Phantom returns her to the opera house unharmed, but orders the managers to make her the lead in Il Muto. However, the managers choose Carlotta instead. During the performance, the Phantom switches Carlotta's throat spray, causing her to sing out of tune, and Christine replaces her. The Phantom then encounters Joseph Buquet and hangs him above the stage, causing panic. Following the incident, Christine and Raoul flee to the roof, declaring their love for each other. The Phantom, now heartbroken after witnessi