Picnic at Hanging Rock is a 1975 Australian mystery film directed by Peter Weir and based on the 1967 novel Picnic at Hanging Rock by Joan Lindsay. Cliff Green adapted the novel into a screenplay. The film stars Rachel Roberts, Dominic Guard, Helen Morse, Vivean Gray and Jacki Weaver. The plot involves the disappearance of several schoolgirls and their teacher during a picnic at Hanging Rock, Victoria on Valentine's Day in 1900, and the subsequent effect on the local community.
Picnic at Hanging Rock was a commercial and critical success, and helped draw international attention to the then-emerging Australian New Wave of cinema.


== Plot ==
On Valentine's Day, 1900, students from Appleyard College, a girls' private school in Victoria, Australia, embark on a picnic to Hanging Rock to celebrate St. Valentine, led by teachers Miss Greta McCraw and Mlle. de Poitiers.  
Sara, a quiet orphan who has been separated from her older brother, “Bertie,” is forced to stay behind with the sheepish Miss Lumley and the school's headmistress, the harsh Mrs. Appleyard. Sara has a deep attachment to Miranda, who is her roommate. 
At the Hanging Rock, students Miranda, Marion, Irma, and the unenthusiastic Edith leave the picnic to explore the area. They  pass a young Englishman, Michael Fitzhubert, and his Australian friend, Albert Crundell, who watch them cross a stream. The girls soon climb the Rock and fall asleep under a strange influence. Edith awakens in terror and begins screaming. She flees back to the picnic as the other girls proceed into a hidden crevice of the Hanging Rock. 
The picnic group of students, having all also fallen asleep, are alarmed when they wake up to find Miss McCraw and the three girls missing. Upon returning to the college without the girls, the students and Sara are plunged into despair. A police search yields no clues, despite Edith's fragmented accounts of the girls' disappearance, seeing Miss McCraw running up to the Rock without her skirt, and seeing a mysterious red cloud. 
After having nightmares about the girls’ disappearance, Michael is haunted by the mystery and conducts his own search for the girls with Albert, leaving paper notes along the Rock trails. Albert relates a similar dream, in which his little sister Sara address him by his nickname, “Bertie,” and disappears into a garden after saying goodbye to him. Despite Albert’s protests, Michael stays at the Rock overnight and finds Irma alive inside a crevice the next day. Irma wakes up days later with no memory of her disappearance, despite a week having passed since she went missing. She cannot say what happened to Miranda, Marion, or Miss McCraw. 
The disappearance of the two other girls and Miss McCraw causes a scandal, leading to students leaving the school and spreading unrest. As the school's reputation suffers, Mrs. Appleyard informs Sara that her guardian has not contacted the college in the last six months and her tuition has not been paid, signaling the cancellation of extracurricular activities, such as dancing and art. Mrs. Appleyard later returns at night to tell Sara that she will be returned to the orphanage. Already distressed by Miranda's disappearance, Sara is further traumatized by the cruel nature of her teachers. Irma, who is recovered but amnesiac, is to be sent back to Europe to be reunited with her parents, but not before facing the wrath of her classmates, who demand answers about the missing girls. The students all leave the college for the summer, and are sent back to live with their families.
Mrs. Appleyard then tells Mlle. de Poitiers that Sara’s guardian had come to collect her, and that Sara left early in the morning. That evening, the two have dinner together, although Mrs. Appleyard ignores Mlle. de Poitiers’ attempts to ask whether or not Sara will be joining them for another school year. 
Sara's body is later discovered in the greenhouse; she is believed to have jumped from the roof. The gardener rushes into Mrs. Appl