A police academy, also known as a law enforcement training center, police college, or police university, is a training school for police cadets, designed to prepare them for the law enforcement agency they will be joining upon graduation, or to otherwise certify an individual as a law enforcement officer, typically a police officer.
Police academies train cadets on skills and tactics required to properly and effectively conduct their duties. These include legal training, driving skills, equipment training, firearm training, use of force, crisis negotiation, and de-escalation, among others. Typical facilities in a police academy include classrooms, vehicle courses, shooting ranges, running tracks, gyms, and recreational facilities, though some may also include dormitories, cafeterias, training simulators, police museums, and police-affiliated businesses such as restaurants and stores.
Police training varies in important ways around the world, with significant differences in program content, format, and instructional methods. Police academies are not used solely by police cadets, and some are also regularly used regularly by sworn officers, other law enforcement agencies, special units such as SWAT, and occasionally even civilians and other non-law enforcement personnel; for example, the 1932 Summer Olympics used the Los Angeles Police Academy's range for their shooting event.
The requirements to join a police department and attend a police academy vary by jurisdiction. Most of the time, these requirements include background checks, physical, mental, and medical exams, as well as criminal record checks.


== Approaches to police instruction ==

Training prepares police officers with the knowledge and skills to apply contemporary standards of policing. In some countries, police education consists of an extensive process over many years. In other countries, police receive as little as 5 to 8 months of education. Most police education includes some time spent on field training, which is a supervised practicum supported by a field training officer (FTO). Police academies adhere to policies for the selection and recruitment of instructors, stress-management training, community-oriented leadership and policing training, specialist training, supervisory and management training, and liability issues associated with training.


=== History of police education ===
From the early 1800s through the early to middle 1900s, policing was conceptualized as a form of physical labor, and on-the-job training was the norm. In the middle of the 20th century, police work became more professional, but this changed a lot depending on national and local culture and politics. The "good government" ethos of the 20th century emphasized that police should be hired competitively based on merit, and entrance tests became standard practice. In some countries, the rights of ‘due process’ advanced to the point where it is necessary for police to have an understanding of the law and legal reasoning. After riots and other problems in the late 20th century, community policing methods were created to show how important social skills and knowledge of social science are. The rise of gun violence also affected police training programs, which placed more and more emphasis on the use of weapons and defensive tactics.


=== Classroom and field training ===
Police training occurs in classroom settings, on the shooting range, in the gym, and in the field. In the classroom, recruits learn the basics of law, procedures, radio codes, penal codes, etc. This type of instruction often involves formal testing, in which recruits must pass each exam with a certain minimum score. On the shooting range and in the gym, hands-on and scenario-based activities include arrest and control, defensive tactics, the use of weapons, and driving. Recruits must demonstrate proficiency in these skills. In the U.S., the President's Task Force on 21st Century Policing recommended incorporating the fol