Pot o' Gold is a 1941 American romantic musical comedy film starring James Stewart and Paulette Goddard, directed by George Marshall, and based on the radio series Pot o' Gold. The film was released April 3, 1941, eight months before the NBC radio series came to an end. Paulette Goddard's singing voice was dubbed by Vera Van. The film was known as The Golden Hour in the United Kingdom.


== Plot ==

Jimmy Haskel is the owner of a music store in Point Jervis, New York. His uncle, Charles J. "C.J." Haskel, hates music and has long wanted Jimmy to join him in his health food business. Jimmy agrees only after his music store fails. When Jimmy arrives in the big city, he meets Molly McCorkle, who welcomes him into her mother's boardinghouse. Horace Heidt's band practices there, adjacent to the Haskel factory. C.J. is infuriated and sends his assistant to stop the band. Jimmy throws a tomato at C.J.'s assistant, only to hit C.J. himself, which makes a good impression on the band and the McCorkles. They don't know Jimmy's true identity, and Molly McCorkle falls in love with him.
When Jimmy substitutes for C.J. on his radio program, Molly's kid brother and Horace find out who he is. They devise a scheme to persuade C.J. to take a vacation. In the meantime, Jimmy takes over the operation of the business and invites Heidt's band to play on the show. Molly learns Jimmy's identity, and in anger, she says on-air that the Haskel program will give away $1000 every week. To protect her from prosecution, Jimmy claims the idea is his. He then has to find a way to give away the cash; a federal investigator informs him that there are many legal restrictions that make every scheme Jimmy and his associates can think up illegal.
Jimmy finally comes up with a method just before the show airs. He gets a bunch of telephone books, and Molly steals a carnival wheel, which they bring into the radio studio. They randomly select first the telephone book, then the page in it, and finally the entry on the page to determine the winner. The giveaway is immensely popular, with advertisers clamoring to sign up. This reconciles the Haskels and McCorkles, paving the way for Jimmy and Molly to get married.


== Cast ==
James Stewart as James Hamilton "Jimmy" Haskel
Paulette Goddard as Molly McCorkle
Horace Heidt as Himself
Charles Winninger as Charles "C.J." Haskel
Mary Gordon as Mom McCorkle
Frank Melton as Jasper Backus, C.J.'s assistant
Jed Prouty as J.K. Louderman, network manager
Charles Arnt as Parks, butler
Dick Hogan as Willie McCorkle
James Burke as Police Lt. Grady
Donna Wood as Donna McCorkle
Larry Cotton as Larry Cotton, Vocalist
Art Carney as Radio Announcer (uncredited)


== Background ==

Pot o' Gold was radio's first big-money giveaway program, garnering huge ratings within four weeks of its 1939 debut. The program's success prompted production of the film. The premise of the radio program, created by Ed Byron, was that any person who picked up the telephone when host Horace Heidt called would automatically win $1000. Phone numbers were chosen by three spins on the Wheel of Fortune: (1) choice of phone directory, (2) page number and (3) the line on the page. The series ran on NBC from September 26, 1939 to December 23, 1941 and later a new show by the same name from October 2, 1946 to March 26, 1947 on ABC.


== Soundtrack ==
Various characters - "Hi, Cy, What's A-Cookin'?" (Written by Henry Russell and Louis Forbes)
Paulette Goddard (dubbed by Vera Van) with Horace Heidt & His Musical Knights - "Pete the Piper" (Written by Henry Russell)
James Stewart - "When Johnny Toots His Horn" (Written by Hy Heath and Fred Rose)
Horace Heidt & His Musical Knights - "A Knife, a Fork and a Spoon" (Written by Dave Franklin)
Larry Cotton with Horace Heidt & His Musical Knights - "Do You Believe in Fairy Tales?" (Music by Vee Lawnhurst, lyrics by Mack David)
Paulette Goddard (dubbed by Vera Van) with Horace Heidt & His Musical Knights - "Broadway Caballero" (Written