Pretty Woman is a 1990 American romantic comedy film directed by Garry Marshall, from a screenplay by J. F. Lawton. The film stars Richard Gere and Julia Roberts, and features Héctor Elizondo, Ralph Bellamy (in his final performance), Laura San Giacomo, and Jason Alexander in supporting roles. The film's story centers on Hollywood escort Vivian Ward and wealthy businessman Edward Lewis. Vivian is hired to be Edward's escort for several business and social functions, and their relationship develops during her week-long stay with him. The film's title Pretty Woman is based on the 1964 song "Oh, Pretty Woman" by Roy Orbison. The original screenplay was titled “3,000,” and was written by then-struggling screenwriter J. F. Lawton.
Originally intended to be a dark cautionary tale about class and sex work in Los Angeles, the film was re-conceived as a romantic comedy with a large budget. Pretty Woman received positive reviews from critics upon release, with widespread praise directed towards Roberts' performance. It saw the highest number of ticket sales in the US ever for a romantic comedy, with Box Office Mojo listing it as the number-one romantic comedy by the highest estimated domestic tickets sold at 42,176,400, slightly ahead of My Big Fat Greek Wedding (2002) at 41,419,500 tickets. The film grossed US$463.4 million worldwide and at the time of its release, was the fifth-highest-grossing film of all time worldwide, behind only E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial ($701 million at the time), Star Wars ($530 million at the time), Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade ($474 million at the time), and Jaws ($470 million at the time).
Pretty Woman catapulted Roberts to superstardom, earning her the Golden Globe Award for Best Actress – Motion Picture Comedy or Musical, in addition to her first nominations for the Academy Award for Best Actress and the BAFTA Award for Best Actress in a Leading Role. The film also received nominations for the BAFTA Award for Best Film and the Golden Globe Award for Best Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy.


== Plot ==
Powerful NYC corporate raider Edward Lewis invites his girlfriend Jessica to join him on a business trip. However, weary of being at his constant beck and call, she ends their relationship. 
One night, leaving a business party in the Hollywood Hills, Edward takes his lawyer Philip's Lotus Esprit and finds himself in the red-light district on Hollywood Boulevard. There he meets struggling prostitute Vivian Ward. 
Lost and struggling to operate the stick-shift, Vivian offers to drive Edward to the Regent Beverly Wilshire Hotel. Impulsively, he hires her for the whole night and, despite initial awkwardness, finds her charming and they have sex in his penthouse suite.
The following day, Edward asks Vivian to stay for the week, as he must attend a series of business events while attempting to acquire Jim Morse's shipbuilding company. After negotiating, Edward and Vivian agree on $3,000. He also gives her money to buy appropriate clothes. 
However, when trying to shop on Rodeo Drive, snobbish and rude saleswomen turn Vivian away. She asks the hotel manager Barney for assistance. He gets upscale store saleslady Bridget, who is very kind, to find her a cocktail dress for that evening's business dinner. Later, Barney teaches her table etiquette. 
Edward is astounded by Vivian’s transformation. At dinner, he introduces Vivian to Morse and his grandson David, who is to take over the company. The Morses are charmed by her, but ultimately the dinner does not go well as they are unhappy with Edward's plan to dismantle their company. 
Edward opens up to the transformed Vivian. He reveals details about his personal and business life, including his estranged relationship with his late father Carter.
When Philip suspects Vivian is a corporate spy, as he sees her talking to David Morse at a polo match, Edward explains their arrangement. The married lawyer later crudely propositions her for her services after Edward leav