Prom Night is a 1980 slasher film directed by Paul Lynch and written by William Gray. Jamie Lee Curtis and Leslie Nielsen star. The film's plot follows a group of high school seniors who are targeted at their prom by a masked killer, seeking vengeance for the accidental death of a young girl (six years earlier). The film features supporting performances from Casey Stevens, Eddie Benton, Mary Beth Rubens and Michael Tough.
Prom Night was filmed in Toronto, Ontario, Canada in late 1979 on a budget of $1.5 million. Distributed by Astral Films in Canada and AVCO Embassy Pictures in the United States, the film was released on July 18, 1980 in select cinemas and was an immediate financial success. The film's theatrical release platform was expanded to major USA cities such as Los Angeles in California and New York City in New York in August where the film was again met with high box-office receipts. At the time, the film was AVCO Embassy's most financially successful release, breaking weekend records in Los Angeles, Philadelphia and New England.
By the end of the film's theatrical run, Prom Night had grossed $15 million in the United States and was Canada's highest-earning horror film of 1980. Critical reaction to the film was varied, with some dismissing the film's depictions of violence against young women, while others alternately praised Prom Night for its more muted violent content. Prom Night received some critical accolades, garnering Genie Award nominations for editing and also for the leading performance of Jamie Lee Curtis. An alternative cut of the film was popularly aired on American and Canadian television networks in 1981.
In the intervening years, Prom Night has accrued a substantial cult following for the film's horror content and also for the film's soundtrack album (which was released by RCA Records in Japan in 1980). Some film scholars have cited Prom Night as one of the most influential slasher films of the period. Several companies released Prom Night on video and the film was also released on DVD by Anchor Bay Entertainment in 1998. A remastered Blu-ray edition of the film was released by Synapse Films in 2014.


== Plot ==
In 1974, 11-year-olds Wendy Richards, Jude Cunningham, Kelly Lynch, and Nick McBride play hide-and-seek in an abandoned convent. When 10-year-old Robin Hammond tries to join them, the group starts teasing her, leading to a scared Robin accidentally falling to her death through a window. The children make a pact not to tell anyone what happened in fear of getting in trouble. The shadow of an unseen person who witnessed Robin's death appears.
Six years later in present day, Robin's elder sister, Kim, and fraternal twin brother, Alex, are preparing for the school prom. Kelly, Jude, and Wendy receive anonymous obscene phone calls, while Nick ignores his ringing phone.
Kim and Nick are now dating. Jude is asked to prom by goofy jokester Seymour "Slick" Crane. Kelly is going with Drew, her boyfriend. Wendy—Nick's ex-girlfriend—asks school bully Lou to the prom with the purpose of embarrassing Nick and Kim. Wendy, Jude and Kelly each find their yearbook photos stabbed with a piece of glass. Meanwhile, Kim and Alex's father, the school principal, learns that the sex offender blamed for Robin's death has escaped from a psychiatric facility. Lt. McBride, Nick's father, investigates.
A figure wearing a ski mask targets Kelly first, slitting her throat with a mirror shard. Jude and Slick have sex in his van outside school grounds. The masked killer kills Jude and causes Slick to drive off a cliff to his death. Staking out the prom, McBride is informed that the sex offender blamed for Robin's death has been caught.
Now wielding an ax, the killer chases Wendy and hacks her to death. Meanwhile, Kim and Nick prepare to be crowned prom king and queen, but Lou and his lackeys tie up Nick, and Lou takes his crown. Mistaking him for Nick, the killer decapitates him. Lou's severed head sends the prom-goers fleei