Proposition 218 is an adopted initiative constitutional amendment which revolutionized local and regional government finance and taxation in California. Named the "Right to Vote on Taxes Act," it was sponsored by the Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association as a constitutional follow-up to the landmark property tax reduction initiative constitutional amendment, Proposition 13, approved in June 1978. Proposition 218 was approved and adopted by California voters during the November 5, 1996, statewide general election.
Proposition 218 amended the California Constitution by adding Article XIII C and Article XIII D. Article XIII C added constitutional voter approval requirements for all local government taxes which previously did not exist. Also included in Article XIII C is a provision significantly expanding the reserved constitutional local initiative power by voters to reduce or repeal any local government tax, assessment, fee or charge, and this constitutional reservation is also subject to a significantly reduced signature requirement making ballot qualification easier. Article XIII D added constitutional assessment and property-related fee reforms applicable to all local governments. This includes numerous additional requirements for special benefit assessments on real property and for property-related fees and charges, such as various utility fees imposed by local governments which are no longer allowed to exceed the cost of providing the utility service to a customer.
The California Senate Office of Research listed Proposition 218 as one of the most significant laws of the 20th century in California.  Following the November 1996 election, a high level official from the California State Association of Counties wrote that Proposition 218 "profoundly changes the way California is governed" and "may prove to be the most revolutionary act in the history of California." Proposition 218 was also the first successful initiative constitutional amendment in California history to add more than one article to the California Constitution as well as to alter the scope of the constitutional initiative power. The measure was drafted by constitutional attorneys Jonathan Coupal and Jack Cohen.


== General Information ==
The official legal title of Proposition 218 was: "Voter Approval for Local Government Taxes. Limitations on Fees, Assessments, and Charges. Initiative Constitutional Amendment."
The Findings and Declarations contained in Proposition 218 stated: "The people of the State of California hereby find and declare that Proposition 13 was intended to provide effective tax relief and to require voter approval of tax increases. However, local governments have subjected taxpayers to excessive tax, assessment, fee and charge increases that not only frustrate the purposes of voter approval for tax increases, but also threaten the economic security of all Californians and the California economy itself. This measure protects taxpayers by limiting the methods by which local governments exact revenue from taxpayers without their consent."
Proposition 218 has been part of the California Constitution for 27 years, 6 months.


== Conditions Leading to Proposition 218 ==
The special assessment and property-related fee reforms contained in Proposition 218 were a response to local government taxation practices in the 1980s and 1990s following the passage of Proposition 13. After Proposition 13 passed in 1978, local governments sought methods to raise additional revenues while avoiding the two-thirds voter approval requirement for special taxes under Proposition 13.
Proposition 218 supporters claimed that local governments found a particularly pernicious way to raise additional revenues and avoid the Proposition 13 two-thirds local voter approval requirement for taxes by using special benefit assessment districts. Special assessments on real property became a vehicle of choice for local politicians seeking to avoid difficult government spending decision