Pump Up the Volume is a 1990 American coming-of-age teen drama film written and directed by Allan Moyle. The film stars Christian Slater, Scott Paulin, Ellen Greene, and Samantha Mathis.


== Plot ==
High school student Mark Hunter lives in a sleepy suburb of Phoenix, Arizona, and broadcasts an FM pirate radio station from his parents' basement which functions as his sole outlet for his teenage angst and aggression. The station's theme song is "Everybody Knows" by Leonard Cohen and there are glimpses of cassettes by alternative musicians such as The Jesus and Mary Chain, Camper Van Beethoven, Primal Scream, Soundgarden, Ice-T, Bad Brains, Concrete Blonde, Henry Rollins, and Pixies. By day, Mark is a loner who has difficulty socializing. By night, under the nom de plume Happy Harry Hard-on or simply “Hard Harry”, he expounds outsider views about problems with American society, expresses teen angst, and exposes the underhanded actions of the faculty. His audience grows from a handful of loyal listeners to the entire student body.
Depressed teenager Malcolm Kaiser writes to Harry seeking advice about committing suicide. Harry flippantly expresses disbelief that Malcolm is sincere, saying “Maybe you’ll feel better tomorrow.” The next day it is discovered that Malcolm committed suicide.
Fellow student Nora De Niro deduces that Mark is Hard Harry, and attempts to assuage the guilt he feels over Malcolm. The radio show becomes increasingly popular after Harry apologizes to Malcolm for not telling him not to follow through, and exhorts his listeners to confront their problems instead of surrendering to them through suicide. At the climax of his speech, overachieving student and consistent listener Paige Woodward jams her medals and accolades into a microwave, causing an explosion which injures her face.
Unrest at the school increases as students share bootleg tapes re-playing Harry’s show. A meeting of faculty and parents concludes that the pirate DJ is responsible for the problems at the school. The police investigate, first cutting off Mark’s access to his P.O. Box, and then cutting off the wireless phone that Mark had surreptitiously hooked up at a neighboring house. The FCC begins an investigation.
Mark decides to make a final broadcast. He installs his radio station in his mother's Jeep, creating a mobile transmitter so the FCC will have difficulty triangulating the radio signal. Nora drives while Mark broadcasts pursued by the police and the FCC.
Harry’s broadcast is heard by the entire school who have gathered at the athletics field. Mark’s father, school board commissioner Brian Hunter, confronts Principal Loretta Cresswood demanding to know why she systematically expelled students with low test scores. Cresswood insists they were losers and troublemakers and that she did it for the good of the school. Brian immediately suspends Cresswood.
The harmonizer Mark uses to disguise his voice breaks, and Mark decides to broadcast his final message as himself. The Jeep drives up to the crowd of students, and Mark tells them that the world belongs to them and that they should make their own future. He encourages them to “steal the air” and begin their own shows to put their thoughts and feelings out into the world. The police arrest Mark and Nora. As they are taken away, students shout their appreciation of “Harry”. Mark turns to the students and tells them to “Talk hard!” As the film ends, the voices of students, and even one of the teachers, are heard introducing their own pirate radio shows.


== Cast ==
Christian Slater as Mark Hunter
Samantha Mathis as Nora De Niro
Mimi Kennedy as Marla Hunter
Scott Paulin as Brian Hunter
Cheryl Pollak as Paige Woodward
Annie Ross as Principal Loretta Creswood
Ahmet Zappa as Jaime
Billy Morrissette as Mazz Mazzilli
Seth Green as Joey
Robert Schenkkan as David Deaver, guidance counselor
Ellen Greene as Jan Emerson
Andy Romano as Mr. Murdock
Anthony Lucero as Malcolm Kaiser
Lala Sloatman as Janie
Ja