The Purple Rose of Cairo is a 1985 American fantasy romantic comedy film written and directed by Woody Allen, and starring Mia Farrow, Jeff Daniels, and Danny Aiello. Inspired by the films Sherlock Jr. (1924) and Hellzapoppin' (1941) and Pirandello's play Six Characters in Search of an Author (1921), it is the tale of a film character named Tom Baxter who leaves a fictional film of the same name and enters the real world.
The film was released on March 1, 1985. It won the BAFTA Award for Best Film, while Allen received several screenwriting nominations, including at the Academy Awards, the BAFTA Awards, and the Writers Guild of America Awards. Allen has ranked it among his best films, along with Husbands and Wives (1992) and Match Point (2005).


== Plot ==
In 1935 with the Great Depression in full swing, New Jersey waitress Cecilia struggles with her stressful job and abusive marriage to her unfaithful husband Monk, who she struggles to leave. After losing her job, she distracts herself by going to the movies, where she finds herself rewatching The Purple Rose of Cairo with a particular focus on archaeologist side character Tom Baxter, who falls in love with a Copacabana singer in the film's story.
Baxter notices Cecilia watching him and develops an attraction to the point where he addresses her directly and steps out of the film to run off with her, to the chagrin of the other, also sentient characters of the film. While Cecilia and Baxter grow closer as they spend an evening on the town together, the film's characters refuse to perform with him gone. The theater manager calls the film's producer and Baxter's actor Gil Shepherd is informed, who comes to town to fix the problem.
Shepherd runs into Cecilia and has her take him to Baxter, who refuses to return to the film as other versions of him across different screenings also start to rebel. Monk hears about Cecilia and Baxter's exploits and confronts them. Baxter beats him in a fair fight, so Monk hits him from behind, and a disgusted Cecilia refuses to leave with him. Baxter is accosted by a prostitute and taken to a brothel, but he remains faithful to Cecilia. Shepherd charms and kisses Cecilia, but she turns him down in favor of Baxter.
While Purple Rose producers plan to destroy its copies once they get Baxter back inside, he and Cecilia get engaged as he returns to the theater and takes her into the film. Inside, he defies his pre-written romance and shows Cecilia the film's world, only for Shepherd to arrive at the theater and profess his love for her. The men argue over her and she chooses Shepherd, loving Baxter but preferring to live in the real world.
Baxter reluctantly returns to the film, while Cecilia finally leaves Monk for good, believing she and Shepherd will run away to Hollywood together. He has already left, his seduction a ploy to get Baxter back into the film, though he appears guilty on the return flight. She sits forlornly in the theater watching Top Hat, but the sight of Ginger Rogers and Fred Astaire dancing to "Cheek to Cheek" captures her attention and she begins to smile.


== Cast ==

Michael Keaton was originally cast as Tom Baxter/Gil Shepherd, as Allen was a fan of his work. Allen later felt that Keaton, who took a pay cut to work with the director, was too contemporary and hard to accept in the period role. The two amicably parted ways after ten days of filming and Daniels replaced Keaton in the role.


== Production ==
Several scenes featuring Tom and Cecilia are set at the Bertrand Island Amusement Park, which closed just prior to the film's production. Many of the outside scenes were filmed in Piermont, New York, a village on the Hudson River about 15 miles north of the George Washington Bridge. Store fronts had false facades reflecting the depression-era setting. It was also filmed at the Raritan Diner in South Amboy, New Jersey. Woody Allen shut down the Kent Theater on Coney Island Avenue in Brooklyn, the neighborhood he grew up in, to