Queens Logic is a 1991 American ensemble coming-of-age comedy-drama film from Seven Arts Pictures starring Kevin Bacon, Linda Fiorentino, Joe Mantegna, Jamie Lee Curtis, John Malkovich, Ken Olin, Chloe Webb and Tom Waits. It was directed by Steve Rash.


== Synopsis ==
This film depicts a cohort of Astoria, Queens working-class, now-thirtysomething childhood neighborhood friends confronting their history together and their future, while behaving both like children and mature adults, and both deceiving and revealing. Ray, the central character, and his childhood friends Al, Dennis and Vinny struggle with issues of commitment in their romantic relationships. Eliot is a gay, later friend who roomed with all of them in a two bedroom apartment as adults and is lonely but dislikes "camp" men. Al and his wife Carla are having serious marital issues, mainly due to his happy go lucky, immature personality. Ray is engaged to Patricia, a wary hairdresser, but he is scared of the effect the marriage may have on his ambitious oil painting career. Vinny is a struggling actor who has dysfunctional one night stands and desires something more meaningful. Dennis is a musician who moved to "Hollywood" to hit the "big time". His braggadocio subsides as he starts dealing with issues he left behind in Queens. The film centers around the preparations for an anniversary, a bachelor party and a wedding which challenges the characters to emotionally mature. The characters face adulthood and discover the meaning of 'Queens Logic.' This comedy film takes a look at the concepts of friendship, loyalty, and love.


== Cast (in credits order) ==

Kevin Bacon as Dennis
Linda Fiorentino as Carla
John Malkovich as Eliot
Joe Mantegna as Al
Ken Olin as Ray
Tony Spiridakis as Vinny
Bruce MacVittie as Joey Clams' Nephew
Tom Waits as Monte
Chloe Webb as Patricia
Jamie Lee Curtis as Grace
Michael Zelniker as Marty
Kelly Bishop as Maria
Terry Kinney as Jeremy


== Production ==
Astoria native Tony Spiridakis wrote the first draft of the screenplay for the film in 1986. He shopped it around to various producers before settling on Stuart Oken, a Chicago theater producer whose previous film production, About Last Night, had been a modest box office hit in the same year. During the filming of the movie, Spiridakis had a dispute with some of his own friends from Brooklyn, who had claimed co-ownership of the script.


== Reception ==
The movie garnered mixed reviews.
Janet Maslin of The New York Times wrote that the film "fans the flames of its characters' dissatisfaction only to put them out again, which makes it more tidily circular than surprising"; she did, however, commend the "big and eminently watchable cast, brought together for ceaseless partying and clowning". Roger Ebert gave it two-and-a-half stars, compared it to a number of other coming-of-age films and those set in the Brooklyn-Queens area, and remarked that "the screenplay by Tony Spiridakis introduces a large gallery of characters in no apparent order and then moves casually among their stories". He and Gene Siskel both gave it thumbs down on their television series; Gene felt it was too purposelessly overloaded with stereotypes for its own good.

Michael Wilmington took a negative view of the film in the Los Angeles Times, stating: Remember all the good times we think we had, the questionably rosy glow we paste on our pasts? In "Queens Logic", writer-actor Tony Spiridakis ransacks his reveries, brings back the old gang—as wedding bells may partially be breaking them up. But he can’t shake the trap of nostalgia. He can’t make his memories breathe.
Spiridakis, and director Steve Rash ("The Buddy Holly Story"), and an uncommonly gifted cast, obviously want us to feel the juice of old friendships, recapture the special street dirt, rhythm and nervy intimacy of Queens itself. The movie’s dominating image is the Hellgate Bridge: both crossway to a better life, and a test of male prowess. In the two key scenes, A