Quest for Camelot (released internationally as The Magic Sword: Quest for Camelot) is a 1998 American animated musical fantasy film produced by Warner Bros. Feature Animation and directed by Frederik Du Chau and very loosely based on the 1976 novel The King's Damosel by Vera Chapman. It features the voices of Jessalyn Gilsig, Cary Elwes, Gary Oldman, Eric Idle, Don Rickles, Jaleel White, Jane Seymour, Pierce Brosnan, Bronson Pinchot, Gabriel Byrne, John Gielgud (his final film), Frank Welker, and Sarah Rayne. Andrea Corr, Bryan White, Celine Dion, and Steve Perry perform the singing voices for Gilsig, Elwes, Seymour, and Brosnan. The story follows Kayley (Gilsig), the adventurous daughter of a Knight of the Round Table killed by the power-hungry Lord Ruber (Oldman). When Ruber's renewed attempt to usurp Camelot from King Arthur (Brosnan) by stealing Excalibur goes awry, Kayley enlists the help of the blind recluse Garrett (Elwes) and a two-headed dragon, Devon and Cornwall (Idle and Rickles), to help her retrieve the sword and save the kingdom.
In May 1995, the film, initially titled The Quest for the Holy Grail, was announced to be Warner Bros. Feature Animation's first project, with Bill Kroyer and Du Chau jointly directing the film. The film went into production later that year, but was delayed when animators were reassigned to help finish Space Jam (1996). During the interim, the story was heavily re-tooled; among these changes was its central focus on the Holy Grail being replaced with Excalibur. Creative differences spurred by these alterations resulted in prominent members of the animation and management staff, including Kroyer, leaving the project. Due to its troubled production, the film's release was delayed by six months, from November 1997 to May 1998. Animation was mostly done in Glendale, California and London, England.
Quest for Camelot was released by Warner Bros. under their Family Entertainment label on May 15, 1998 in the United States and Canada. It received mixed reviews and was a commercial failure, grossing $38.1 million against a $40 million budget. One of the film's songs, "The Prayer", won the Golden Globe Award for Best Original Song and was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Original Song.


== Plot ==
Set in a Celtic mythology, Sir Lionel is a knight of the Round Table, who is killed foiling an assassination attempt on King Arthur by the evil Lord Ruber, who is then driven off by Excalibur, Arthur's sword. Later, while at Lionel's funeral, Arthur tells Lionel's daughter, Kayley, and his widow, Juliana, that they will always be welcome at Camelot. Kayley dreams of becoming a Knight, like her father, and trains herself while working on their farm.
A decade later, Ruber's griffin attacks Camelot, where he steals Excalibur and injures King Arthur. Merlin's pet falcon, Ayden, attacks the griffin, causing it to drop the sword into the Forbidden Forest. The Griffin is driven away by the forest's sentient trees. When Kayley hears the news she plans to search for Excalibur herself, which displeases her mother. Ruber attacks the farm and captures Kayley and Juliana, planning to use them to gain entry to Camelot. He uses a witch's potion to fuse his henchmen with their weapons and a henpecked rooster named Bladebeak. After hearing Ruber's plans, Kayley escapes and heads to the forest, pursued by the steel men and Bladebeak. Once in the forest, Kayley is saved by Garrett, a blind hermit, and Ayden. They decide to search for Excalibur, and Kayley persuades him to let her join the quest. Ruber learns of this from Bladebeak and decides to follow them in order to obtain Excalibur.
Kayley and Garrett encounter a wisecracking two-headed dragon named Devon and Cornwall, whose two heads can not stand each other and dream of being separated, and can neither fly nor breathe fire. They escape from a group of attacking dragons, who are taken out by Ruber and his henchmen, and Devon and Cornwall join their quest. Dur