The Rage: Carrie 2 is a 1999 American supernatural horror film directed by Katt Shea, and starring Emily Bergl, Jason London, Dylan Bruno, J. Smith-Cameron and Amy Irving. The film is a sequel to the 1976 horror film Carrie based on the 1974 novel of the same name by Stephen King, and serves as the second film in the Carrie franchise. The film was originally titled The Curse and did not have connections to the Carrie novel or film, but was eventually rewritten to be a direct sequel to the 1976 film. Its plot follows the younger half-sister of Carrie White (Bergl), also suffering with telekinesis, who finds that her best friend's suicide was spurred by a group of popular male classmates who exploited her for sexual gain.
The Rage: Carrie 2 was released on March 12, 1999, and was a box office bomb, grossing $17 million against a $21 million production budget. It received generally negative reviews, which criticized the routine recycling of the original film's story and themes. However, they widely praised the performance of Bergl, who was nominated for a Saturn Award for her work on the film.


== Plot ==
In 1986, Rachel Lang is placed in foster care when her mother, Barbara, is diagnosed with schizophrenia after mistaking signs of Rachel's telekinesis for demonic possession. In September 1999, Rachel, an outcast, is living with unsympathetic foster parents and attending high school. Her best friend, Lisa Parker, commits suicide by leaping from the roof of the school. Eric Stark, a popular football star, rejected her after exploiting her for sex.
Rachel finds a photograph of Lisa and Eric kissing while developing rolls of Lisa's film. Rachel turns the photo in to police, and explains that Lisa confessed to her that she had recently lost her virginity. Sheriff Kelton and the school's guidance counselor, Sue Snell, pursue statutory rape charges against Eric, who is over eighteen. Eric and his football player peers, including Mark Bing and Chuck Potter, are competing to see who could seduce the most girls.
Late one night while driving home, Jesse Ryan, another player on the football team, is flagged down by Rachel after her Basset Hound, Walter, is hit by a car. Jesse takes an interest in Rachel, to the chagrin of cheerleader Tracy Campbell, who is pursuing him. Meanwhile, having discovered that Rachel implicated them in Lisa's death, Eric and Mark attempt to scare her into silence by harassing her at her home, but her telekinetic powers frighten them away.
Sue begins to suspect Rachel may possess telekinetic powers through their counseling sessions. She tracks down Rachel's institutionalized mother, whose schizophrenia has stabilized. Barbara confesses that Rachel's father was Ralph White, the father of Carrie White. Sue brings Rachel to the ruins of the high school which Carrie destroyed in a telekinetic rage in 1976 after being humiliated at her senior prom. Sue, a peer of Carrie's, was one of the few survivors of the incident. When Sue discloses that Carrie is Rachel's half-sister, Rachel dismisses her as a liar.
The district attorney covers up the statutory rape charges against Eric because the players' families have political influence. Mark sets up a romantic getaway for Rachel and Jesse, which he covertly films. Monica Jones, the girlfriend of Mark's friend Brad Winters, befriends Rachel under false pretenses, inviting her to a party. Rachel leaves with Monica to the party, while Jesse is forced to ride with Tracy after his car's tires are slashed. Tracy stops at her house first and unsuccessfully attempts to seduce him. Meanwhile, Sue sneaks Barbara out of the institution so that she can confess Rachel's father's identity to her.
Mark and Chuck confront Rachel at the party, revealing their sex game and claiming that Rachel was added to Jesse's list of girls he has bedded. They project the footage of her and Jesse having sex for all of the partygoers to see. This triggers Rachel's telekinesis, and she seals the house closed