Ready to Rumble is a 2000 American buddy comedy sports film directed by Brian Robbins and written by Steven Brill, which is based on Turner Broadcasting System's now defunct professional wrestling promotion, World Championship Wrestling (WCW). The movie draws its title from ring announcer Michael Buffer's catchphrase, "Let's get ready to rumble!" The movie features many wrestlers from WCW.


== Plot ==
Sewage workers Gordie Boggs and Sean Dawkins watch their favorite wrestler, WCW World Heavyweight Champion Jimmy King cheated out of the title by Diamond Dallas Page (DDP), promoter Titus Sinclair, and DDP's partners. After the match, the duo expresses their rage while driving in their septic truck, resulting in a car crash which they survive.
Gordie starts believing that the crash was supposed to happen and that they should make Jimmy King once again the WCW World Heavyweight Champion. Looking for King, they find his estranged wife and his parents. King's parents tell Gordie and Sean that King borrowed their mobile home and never returned it. The duo later finds King, who has given up on wrestling, and angers him to the point where he attacks them. This attack prompts a change of heart for King, and his passion for wrestling returns. They go visit his wife, who kicks him in the crotch for giving her crabs and abandoning her and their son. The couple eventually reconciles on her porch.
King's teenage son then comes out and has very bad teeth. King vows to win the money and get him a good dentist.
King, Geordie and Sean go on a road trip to the next WCW Monday Nitro taping in New York City. Gordie sends letters to his father, a police officer who wanted Gordie to follow in his footsteps. Gordie writes that he will not join him in the force, making him frustrated. Gordie and Sean arrive at the Nitro taping where they hide King in a port-a-potty and meet Nitro Girl Sasha. When DDP mocks King on camera, King comes out of the port-a-potty and attacks him. Sinclair then declares a Steel Cage match for the WCW World Heavyweight Championship plus a $1 million cash prize, with the added stipulation that if King loses, he will never wrestle again.
Sasha is impressed by Gordie, and they later go to her apartment to have dinner. Sasha attempts to have sex with Gordie, who reacts like it is a wrestling match and pushes her off of him. King is out of shape for the match, so he, Gordie, and Sean head to the residence of retired wrestler Sal Bandini, who accepts becoming King's trainer. The trio then heads to a gym, where King meets his former partner, Bill Goldberg. King asks Goldberg to help in the upcoming match, but he turns him down, saying that King has no chances of winning. That night, Sid Vicious and Perry Saturn attack Sal, hospitalizing him. At the hospital, Gordie overhears Sasha at a phone booth and learns that she was working for Sinclair the entire time. Realizing their relationship was a sham, Gordie breaks up with her.
As the trio returns to Gordie and Sean's hometown in Wyoming to continue training, Gordie's father forces him to abandon his wrestling aspirations and join the police force. Sean and King try to convince Gordie to get out of becoming an officer, but he refuses. He does, however, hold a party for King and wishes him luck in the Steel Cage match.
On the night of the match, King is again outnumbered by DDP's goons but he receives help from Goldberg, Booker T, Billy Kidman, Disco Inferno, Sting, and Gordie, who rides in on a police motorcycle debuting his new gimmick as "The Law." King ultimately wins the match by dropping DDP from the top of the cage to the floor of the ring. As King comes up victorious and is once again WCW World Heavyweight Champion, Sinclair gets beaten up by Sean and Gordie (as well as by the fans). Goldberg later asks King to re-team with him, but announces his new partner will be Gordie, and their manager will be Sean “Suga Daddy” Dawkins.
Sean later tells local kids "dreams can come true" at 