Hitman in the City (Chinese: 杀手一出手, literally When The Killer Strikes), also known as Replacement Killers, is a Singaporean telefilm directed by Jack Neo, released in 1998. The film is notable as one of two telefilms released by J Team Productions.


== Plot ==
Chen Lai Shun is a lowly clerk at a big company, whose head Lin Da Fa is Lai Shun's former neighbour. On the outside, the business seems legitimate, but it actually deals in drugs traded in from Thailand.
Da Fa receives a shipment of heroin brought in by two of his henchmen, Gregory and Michael, but discovers that two hundred grams are missing. He requests his middleman to track down the unknown thief, and initially suspects that his Thailand suppliers are responsible for the loss. Da Fa calls his superior Or Pang (Black Fatty), who brings along his small squad of hitmen. Michael however, catches Gregory in the act of hiding the heroin.
Lai Shun happens to be around when the injured Gregory passes him the package of drugs and requests him to pass it to an associate. Lai Shun throws the heroin down, unintentionally splattering the powder all over his associate. The hitmen then give chase to Lai Shun, but lose him.
Lai Shun then encounters his hitman nephew from Hong Kong, Liu Fei, and his fiancee, Linda, while on the run. Liu Fei takes him in, much to Linda's chagrin.
The Singapore hitmen then visits Liu Fei's home and requests him to assassinate Lai Shun, not knowing of their relationship. They then kidnap Lai Shun's family.  Liu Fei leads the local hitmen on a wild goose chase, helping Lai Shun to escape from the sights of the hitmen, who spot him trying to hide at his sisters' homes. Linda attempts to rescue Lai Shun's family, but is strangled to death by Crow.
Despite Liu Fei's utmost efforts to protect Lai Shun, Crow and gang blow Liu Fei's plan, culminating in a battle of bullets that fells Lai Shun. Liu Fei finds Linda dead and engages in a gun battle with Dafa, Crow and gang. With all of Crow's henchmen dead,  he challenges Liu Fei to a no-guns-brawl in the woods. The film ends as Liu Fei fatally bludgeons Crow with a stone and walks off. 


=== Subplot ===
Jack Neo serves as the narrator of the film, touching on the complexities of filming a movie and the entertainment industry in general.


== Cast ==
Mark Lee as Liu Fei
Patricia Mok as Linda
Henry Thia as Chen Lai Shun
Felix Ong Kim Huat as Black Fatty (Or Pang)
John Cheng as Crow (Wu-ya)
Luis Lim Yong Kun as Henchman 1
Lin Xinghong as Ah Hong (henchman 2)
Tony Kim Ju Gong as Lin Dafa
Michael as Dafa's henchman
Craig Teo as Gregory, Dafa's henchman
Lim Siew Keng as Lai Shun's wife
Jack Neo as Thailand Drug Trafficker/Hong Kong assassin (Cameo)


=== Crew ===
Jack Neo - Scriptwriter, Director, Narrator
Irene Kng alias Kang Mei Feng - Producer


== Production ==
Originally, after the near failure of the production effort from the highly successful film Money No Enough, Jack Neo approached BMP Productions about a new movie prospect, which demanded Neo to direct a hitman action movie, threatening to end their partnership and distribute Hollywood action films that would cut into Neo's margins, if he did not comply.
Hitman in the City was planned by Neo to be an extension of his original eight-minute spoof movie, Replacement Killers, which won him the Best Director in the 1988 Singapore International Film Festival Silver Screen Awards.
Also while other filmmakers used Super 8 or Super 16 cameras and convert them into standard 35mm films during post production, Jack Neo wanted to post produce Hitman in the City on VCD, VHS and Singapore Chinese television channels instead of releasing it as a film to be released in cinemas. Neo then produced the telefilm using the Canon XL-2 DV camera. As Canon was a major sponsor for the telefilm, its products were advertised in the telefilm - specifically - the CanoScan FB 610 scanner, a BJC bubble inkjet printer and the CN600 laptop. Other sponsors included Acer, Institute Estetic