Ride with the Devil is a 1999 American revisionist Western film directed by Ang Lee and starring Tobey Maguire, Skeet Ulrich, Jeffrey Wright, Jewel in her feature film debut, Simon Baker, Jonathan Rhys Meyers, James Caviezel, Thomas Guiry and Jonathan Brandis. Based on the novel Woe to Live On, by Daniel Woodrell, the film, set during the American Civil War, follows a group of men who join the First Missouri Irregulars, also known as the Bushwhackers—guerrilla units loyal to pro-Confederacy units of the state—and their war against Northern Jayhawkers allied with the Union army.
The film was a co-production between Universal Studios and Good Machine. Principal photography began on March 25, 1998. Theatrically, it was commercially distributed by the USA Films division of USA Networks and premiered in only six theaters nationwide in the United States on November 26, 1999, and for only three days, grossing a total of $635,096 (~$1.09 million in 2023). Taking into account its $38 million budget costs, the film was considered a major box office bomb.
Ride with the Devil has been noted for its thematic exploration of politics, violence and war. In 2010, The Criterion Collection released a restored high-definition digital transfer for the home media market, featuring an extended 148-minute director's cut of the film.


== Plot ==
Jake Roedel and Jack Bull Chiles are friends in Lexington, Missouri when the Civil War breaks out. Chiles' family are wealthy planters, and Jake's father, a German immigrant, warns him of anti-German suspicion from other Southerners. Jayhawkers set fire to the Chiles' plantation and execute Jack's father, but Jack escapes with Jake.
One year later, they have joined the First Missouri Irregulars under "Black" John Ambrose, an informal unit loyal to the Confederate government of Missouri, alongside George Clyde, former slave Holt, and sadistic Pitt Mackeson, who despises the literate Jake. The Irregulars use guerrilla warfare against the Jayhawkers, supported by pro-Confederate citizens of Missouri. Jake spares captured Unionist Alf Bowden, his former neighbor, but news later arrives that Alf has killed Jake's father as revenge against the Irregulars.
Jake, Jack, Holt, and Clyde are sent to hide on the property of the Evans family. A young widow in the household, Sue Lee Shelley, becomes romantically involved with Jack, while Clyde leaves to romance a female friend nearby. Jake bonds with Holt, who reveals that his given name is Daniel and that Clyde, his childhood friend, bought him his freedom. An attack by Jayhawkers leaves the Evans' patriarch dead and Jack severely wounded, but Clyde abandons them to rejoin the Irregulars. Jake, Holt, and Sue Lee try to amputate Jack's injured arm, but he dies from complications of gangrene.
Jake and Holt escort Shelley to the Brown family homestead before riding to find Clyde and the Irregulars, and learn the Union army has hunted down many of their comrades. The Irregulars join forces with guerrillas led by William Quantrill, who plans to raid Lawrence, Kansas. The pro-South forces easily overcome the small garrison of troops guarding Lawrence, burn and loot shops and homes, and kill Union supporters and black freedmen. Avoiding the bloodshed, Jake and Holt find a nearby restaurant to eat breakfast, where they are threatened by Mackeson and force him to leave at gunpoint.
As the guerrillas make their escape, Ambrose accuses Jake of abandoning the Southern cause, and Union troops pursue them into the woods. Quantrill and Ambrose organize the men to feign retreat and form battle lines, holding off the pursuit. Mackeson shoots at Jake, and Holt is hit trying to return fire. Clyde rushes to his aid, but is shot through the throat and dies in Holt's arms. Wounded, Jake and Holt flee with their comrade Cave Wyatt and recuperate with the Brown family, while Sue Lee has given birth to Jack's daughter, Grace. Assuming Jake is the father, Cave urges him to marry her.
With Jack and