The 2024 King and Queen of the Ring was a professional wrestling event produced by the American company WWE. It was the 12th King of the Ring event, but under a new name, and took place on Saturday, May 25, 2024, at the Jeddah Super Dome in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. It aired via pay-per-view (PPV) and livestreaming and featured wrestlers from the promotion's Raw and SmackDown brand divisions. The event hosted the finals of both the 23rd King of the Ring tournament and the second Queen of the Ring tournament, with the last tournaments for each held in 2021.
This was the 11th event that WWE held in Saudi Arabia under a 10-year partnership in support of Saudi Vision 2030, thus marking the first King of the Ring event held outside of the United States. The event was originally scheduled to be held at the same location in May 2023, but plans were changed and it was replaced by Night of Champions. This was the first King of the Ring event since 2015, which was livestreamed exclusively on the WWE Network, the first to livestream on Peacock in the United States, the first to air on traditional PPV since 2002, and the first dedicated event for the Queen of the Ring tournament, which was originally established in 2021 as the Queen's Crown tournament. For the 2024 event, winners of each tournament received a world championship match at SummerSlam.
Six matches were contested at the event, including one on the Countdown to King and Queen of the Ring pre-show. In the main event, Cody Rhodes defeated Logan Paul to retain SmackDown's Undisputed WWE Championship. In other prominent matches, Raw's Gunther defeated SmackDown's Randy Orton to win the King of the Ring tournament, earning a match for his brand's World Heavyweight Championship at SummerSlam, SmackDown's Nia Jax defeated Raw's Lyra Valkyria to win the Queen of the Ring tournament, earning a match for her brand's WWE Women's Championship at SummerSlam, and in the opening bout, Liv Morgan defeated Becky Lynch to win Raw's Women's World Championship.


== Production ==


=== Background ===
In early 2018, the American professional wrestling promotion WWE began a 10-year strategic multiplatform partnership with the Ministry of Sport (formerly General Sports Authority) in support of Saudi Vision 2030, Saudi Arabia's social and economic reform program. In 2023, WWE had scheduled an event for May titled King and Queen of the Ring at the Jeddah Super Dome in Jeddah, which would have revived the King of the Ring event series but with a rebranding; however, these plans were scrapped with the event replaced by Night of Champions. Fightful later reported that WWE did not have plans to reschedule King and Queen of the Ring for later that year, but that the event could possibly be used for a future Saudi Arabian show.
On April 7, 2024, during night two of WrestleMania XL, WWE announced plans to go ahead with the King and Queen of the Ring event in Saudi Arabia at the Jeddah Super Dome, thus marking the 12th King of the Ring and 11th overall event in the Saudi Arabian partnership. It was scheduled to be held on Saturday, May 25, 2024. This marked the first King of the Ring event since 2015, which was livestreamed exclusively on the WWE Network, the first to livestream on Peacock in the United States, the first to air on traditional pay-per-view (PPV) since 2002, and the first King of the Ring event held outside of the United States. It was also confirmed that the May 24 episode of Friday Night SmackDown would take place in Saudi Arabia for the first time.
The King of the Ring event was originally primarily based around the King of the Ring tournament, a men's single-elimination tournament that was established by WWE in 1985 with the winner being crowned "King of the Ring". It was held annually until 1991, with the exception of 1990. These early tournaments were special non-televised house shows. In 1993, the promotion began to produce the King of the Ring tournament as a self-titled PPV. It continued as