River Wild is a 2023 American thriller film that is a reimagining of the 1994 film The River Wild and a modern-day standalone sequel. It was directed by Ben Ketai, from a script he co-authored with Mike Nguyen Le. The film stars Adam Brody, Leighton Meester, and Taran Killam.
The film entered principal photography commenced in July 2022 in Hungary, wrapping later that year. River Wild was released direct-to-home video through physical and digital release, on August 1, 2023.


== Synopsis ==
Estranged brother and sister Gray and Joey Reese embark on a whitewater rafting trip amongst tourists with their childhood friend Trevor. Along the river, the events quickly turn from exciting to terrifying, as the group finds themselves trapped alongside a killer who is intent to sabotage the trip while keeping secrets from the past from being revealed. Joey must overcome her fears and work with her brother Gray to survive to the end of the river, before it's too late.


== Cast ==
Leighton Meester as Joey Reese
Taran Killam as Gray Reese
Adam Brody as Trevor
Olivia Swann as Karissa
Eve Connolly as Van
Matt Devere as Walt
Nick Wittman as Max
Courtney Chen as EMT
Kiel Kennedy as James


== Production ==


=== Development ===
In July 2022, it was announced that a feature film reimagining of The River Wild had entered production, while principal photography had already commenced in Hungary by that time. Directed by Ben Ketai from a script he co-authored with Mike Nguyen Le. Produced by Ogden Gavanski, the project is a Universal 1440 Entertainment production and will be distributed by Universal Filmed Entertainment Group. Though it was announced as a remake/reboot by tabloids, the executives of the studio called the movie a "new The River Wild story" in the "universe" of the original indicating that it is a standalone-sequel taking place in a contemporary setting.
Ketai later stated that the story, while similar and inspired by the first installment, would differ in how the events unfold over the story. While the events of The River Wild (1994) happen by circumstance with the Hartman family meeting the bad guys along the river, the events of River Wild (2023) would result from a pre-existing relationship and the tension that the group has. The filmmaker said "In our movie, the danger comes from within the group. ...[It's] a more intimate and gritty story, but in the same exciting setting as the original."


=== Casting ===
The cast was announced in July 2022, to include Leighton Meester, Taran Killam and Adam Brody. The trio of stars, who appear alongside a supporting cast, feature as the story's siblings Joey and Gary Reese, and their childhood friend Trevor, respectively.


=== Filming ===
Principal photography commenced in July 2022, with filming taking place in Eastern Europe including Hungary, Slovakia, and Bosnia. The cast and crew drove from location to location, with the cast receiving extensive training at an Olympic Games training facility in Liptovský Mikuláš, Slovakia prior to the production commencement. Meester described the production as physical stating that the heat of summer, the cold of the river water, and the emotional subject matter as "challenging".
She and real-life husband Brody stated that though they initially believed that filming the project might bring intensity home with them after work, they both found the process to be natural, easily switching off from their roles between takes, with relief that it didn't affect their personal lives. Meester stated that working with her husband "made every moment enjoyable and put [her] at ease", which also "gave [her] an innate sense of safety." Brody found the production to be fun, humorously stating: "But my absolute favorite part of filming was chasing Leighton through the woods at full speed." Killam stated that the physical preparation for the role made him feel prepared for the production, while comparing the training to that of his wife Cobie Smulders who has appeared 