Rosie Alice Huntington-Whiteley (born 18 April 1987) is an English model and actress. She is best known for her work for lingerie retailer Victoria's Secret, formerly being one of their brand "Angels", for being the face of Burberry's 2011 brand fragrance Burberry Body, for her work with Marks & Spencer, and, most recently, for her artistic collaboration with denim-focused fashion brand Paige.
Moving into acting, she had supporting roles as Carly Spencer in the 2011 film Transformers: Dark of the Moon, the third installment in the Transformers film series, and as The Splendid Angharad in the 2015 film Mad Max: Fury Road.


== Early life ==
Huntington-Whiteley was born in Plymouth, Devon, England, the daughter of Charles Andrew Huntington-Whiteley, a chartered surveyor, and fitness instructor Fiona Yvonne, daughter of Alan Jackson of Buckinghamshire. She has two younger siblings, a brother and a sister. She grew up on a farm near Tavistock, Devon. Her paternal great-grandfather, Wing-Commander Eric Huntington-Whiteley, JP, was the nephew of George Whiteley, 1st Baron Marchamley and the younger son of politician Sir Herbert Huntington-Whiteley, 1st Baronet; Eric's wife, Rosie's great-grandmother, Enid Etta Cohn, was from a family of Polish Jews who emigrated to England in the 1870s. Rosie's paternal grandmother, Gillian, also from a Jewish family, was the daughter of surgeon Jacob Franks, of West Chiltington, Sussex.
Educated at Tavistock College, she later revealed that she was bullied and teased at school for having a double-barrelled name, small breasts and full lips.


== Career ==
As a 15-year-old student, she undertook work experience at London West End-based model agency Profile, before taking her GCSEs. Signed after leaving school in Summer 2003, aged 16, her first modelling session was for a Levi's jeans commercial. She got her first big break in January 2004 when she travelled to New York City for a shoot with Teen Vogue. She later made her catwalk debut alongside Naomi Campbell in New York City in Spring 2004, and was then photographed by Bruce Weber for Abercrombie & Fitch.
In early 2006, she was signed to American lingerie brand Victoria's Secret, making her debut at the brand's fashion show in Los Angeles.

Huntington-Whiteley remained unknown outside the fashion industry until 2008, when she was cast by chief creative director Christopher Bailey, replacing Agyness Deyn for Burberry's Autumn/Winter campaign with actor Sam Riley. She got her first British Vogue cover on the November 2008 issue, alongside Eden Clark and Jourdan Dunn in a feature celebrating British models. The following year, she was featured as the face of Karen Millen's Spring/Summer 2009 advertising campaign. She starred in a short film for Agent Provocateur lingerie, playing a woman whose boyfriend forgets Valentine's Day.
For Fall/Winter 2009, she modelled in campaigns for Godiva and Miss Sixty. In February 2010, Huntington-Whiteley officially became a Victoria's Secret Angel and took part in the annual Victoria's Secret Fashion Show in New York City. She confirmed the following year that she wouldn't walk the show, and has since stated that she left Victoria's Secret to pursue other opportunities, as she was "well aware of the short shelf-life a model has".
In 2010, she posed nude for the Pirelli Calendar, which was photographed by Terry Richardson. Huntington-Whiteley hit the runway for designers Prada in Milan and Giles Deacon in Paris. For SS10 her advertising campaigns included Monsoon's first underwear line, Thomas Wylde, Full Circle, and VS Online. In March, she collaborated with VOGUE.COM to share her outfit choices daily for the Today I'm Wearing feature. She appeared on the covers of the May 2010 issues of Harper's Bazaar Russia and GQ UK. She was featured on the cover of LOVE Magazine's September issue, styled as a pinup girl. For FW10 she modelled for Burberry as well as the company's first beauty line; her other advertising campaign