The Cannonball Run is a 1981 American action-comedy film directed by Hal Needham, produced by Hong Kong's Golden Harvest films, and distributed by 20th Century-Fox. Filmed in Panavision, it features an all-star ensemble cast, including Burt Reynolds, Dom DeLuise, Roger Moore, Farrah Fawcett, Jackie Chan, and Dean Martin. The film is based on the 1979 running of the Cannonball Baker Sea-to-Shining-Sea Memorial Trophy Dash, an actual cross-country outlaw road race beginning in Connecticut and ending in California.
It was one of 1981's most successful films at the box office. It was followed by Cannonball Run II (1984), which was far less successful at the box office and with critics. This film and its 1984 sequel were the final film appearances of actor Dean Martin. It also featured Jackie Chan in his second Hollywood role. Cannonball (1976), The Gumball Rally (1976) and Speed Zone (1989) were three other motion pictures based on the actual Cannonball Run outlaw road race. Jamie Farr reprised his Cannonball Run and Cannonball Run II character "Sheik Abdul Ben Falafel" in a cameo in the latter film.


== Plot ==

Race teams have gathered in Connecticut to start a cross-country car race. One at a time, teams drive up to the starters' stand, punch a time card to indicate their time of departure, then take off.
Among the teams:

JJ McClure, a famous racing driver and team owner, and Victor Prinzi, his chief mechanic and occasional co-driver, drive a Dodge Tradesman ambulance fitted with a NASCAR engine.
Former F1 icon (and Scotch-swilling) Jamie Blake and his (gambling-obsessed) teammate Morris Fenderbaum, dressed as Catholic priests, drive a red Ferrari 308 GTS 1979.
Jill Rivers and Marcie Thatcher, two attractive women who use their looks to their advantage, start the race in a black Lamborghini Countach.
Two Japanese drivers race in a high-tech, computer-laden Subaru DL 4WD hatchback with a rocket booster engine.
A pair of good ol' boys drive a street-legal replica of Donnie Allison's Hawaiian Tropic-sponsored NASCAR Winston Cup Series Chevrolet stock car owned by Hoss Ellington.
Seymour Goldfarb, Jr., a rich British playboy who believes himself to be Roger Moore, drives a silver Aston Martin DB5.
Abdul ben Falafel, a wealthy oil-rich Middle-Eastern sheikh, driving a white Rolls-Royce Silver Shadow.
At the starting line, observing from the shadows, is Mr. Arthur J. Foyt (the name is a fictionalized play on real life racer A. J. Foyt), a representative of the "Safety Enforcement Unit", who tries to stop the race because of its environmental effects and safety issues. In the car with Foyt is a photographer and tree lover, Pamela Glover.
Beyond the starting line, JJ and Victor (driving their ambulance) come across Foyt and Glover, who have been involved in a minor accident. Glover implores JJ and Victor to help, but when they tell Foyt to enter the ambulance through the back door, they kidnap Glover and take off without Foyt.
As the race progresses, Victor occasionally turns into his alter ego, superhero "Captain Chaos." Dr. Van Helsing and his huge hypodermic needle are also in the ambulance to "help" keep Glover quiet during the race.
Various teams are shown either evading law enforcement, most of which deal with talking their way out of a possible ticket, or concocting crazy schemes to outmaneuver their opponents.

Jill and Marcie use sex appeal as their weapon, unzipping their race suits to display copious amounts of cleavage during traffic stops.
In New Jersey, the ambulance is pulled over by state troopers. Dr. Van Helsing drugs Glover, and JJ and Victor are able to convince the troopers that they are rushing "the Senator's wife" to UCLA for medical treatment (offering the theory, which to JJ and Victor's happy surprise is Van Helsing's idea, that her condition prevents them from flying, or from even driving through Denver).
The Subaru team is able to turn off their car's headlights and use infrared sensors for racing at night