Runaway Bride is a 1999 American screwball romantic comedy film directed by Garry Marshall, and starring Julia Roberts and Richard Gere. The screenplay, written by Sara Parriott and Josann McGibbon, is about a reporter (Gere) who undertakes to write a story about a woman (Roberts) who has left a string of fiancés at the altar.
It is the second film to co-star Gere and Roberts, following Pretty Woman (1990). It received generally negative reviews from critics but was a commercial success, grossing $309 million worldwide.


== Plot ==
Maggie Carpenter is a spirited, attractive young woman who has had a number of unsuccessful relationships. She has left a trio of fiancés at the altar on their wedding day, earning local notoriety and the nickname "The Runaway Bride”. 
Misanthropic New York columnist Ike Graham writes an unflattering article about Maggie after hearing her story from a man in a bar. Unbeknownst to Ike, the man is one of her bitter ex-fiancés, and the account is riddled with errors. After Maggie sends a scathing rebuttal to the newspaper, Ike is fired for not verifying the facts. Later, his boss offers him a chance to restore his reputation by writing an in-depth, truthful article about Maggie, if only to prove that she is indeed the heartless "man-eater" he claimed her to be.
Ike travels to Hale, Maryland, where Maggie works at her family's hardware store and makes designer lamps out of spare industrial parts. She is now on her fourth attempt to be married; the groom-to-be, Bob Kelly, is a high school football coach who constantly speaks in sports analogies and has been working with Maggie to help her “visualize” the wedding. Ike follows Maggie around town and speaks with her friends, family, and former fiancés, all of whom are happy to share their thoughts. Fed up with his intrusiveness, she offers him the opportunity to spend time with her one-on-one and see for himself that she is not a bad person. During this period, Ike and Maggie grow closer, each using the other’s feedback to make improvements in their personal lives.
As Ike researches Maggie's history, he discovers that she adopts the interests of each of her fiancés, noted most prominently by her choice of eggs. At a pre-wedding luau celebration, he defends Maggie from the public mockery she receives at a roast from her family and guests, causing her to leave the room in embarrassment. Ike confronts Maggie outside and accuses her of not truly knowing herself; she in turn calls him out for his cynicism, suggesting he uses his column to mock the lives of others because he is too afraid to pursue a meaningful life for himself.
At the wedding rehearsal, Bob walks Maggie down the aisle to help her practice her “visualization” techniques, asking Ike to stand in for him as the groom. When she reaches the altar, Ike and Maggie unexpectedly share a passionate kiss and admit their feelings for each other. Chagrined, Bob punches him in the face and storms out of the church. Afterwards, Ike proposes that since the wedding has already been arranged, he and Maggie should get married, to which Maggie agrees.
On the day of the ceremony, which is heavily attended by the media, Bob advises Ike to maintain eye contact with Maggie to reassure her. While the advice works at first, a camera flash temporarily blinds Ike, breaking Maggie's concentration, and she suddenly gets cold feet and flees. Ike pursues her, but she evades him by jumping onto the back of a passing FedEx truck. Heartbroken, Ike returns to New York.
In the following weeks, Maggie works to discover herself, sampling different egg dishes to determine her true favorite and putting her lamps up for sale in New York City shops. One night, Ike returns to his apartment to find Maggie inside waiting for him. She explains that she ran from her previous weddings because the men did not know who she truly was, in part due to her efforts to conform to their preferences. However, with Ike she ran because even though he trul