The Santa Clauses is an American Christmas comedy television series created by Jack Burditt for Disney+ and based on The Santa Clause film series. It serves as a sequel to The Santa Clause 3: The Escape Clause (2006) and features Tim Allen, Elizabeth Mitchell, Eric Lloyd, and David Krumholtz reprising their roles from the film series. Jack Burditt serves as showrunner and executive producer. It premiered on November 16, 2022. In December 2022, The Santa Clauses was renewed for a second season which premiered with two episodes on November 8, 2023.
The series follows Scott Calvin, a former businessman who became Santa Claus in 1994, his wife Carol Calvin (Mrs. Claus), and their children Buddy "Cal" Calvin-Claus and Sandra Calvin-Claus. Scott Calvin, having served as Santa Claus for almost 30 years, believes that he is losing his magical abilities due to age and decides to choose a successor and retire.


== Cast and characters ==


=== Main ===
Tim Allen as Scott Calvin / Santa Claus: A former successful businessman, who became Santa Claus in 1994 and chose to remain in the role out of the goodness of his heart. After almost 30 years in his role, Calvin  believes that he is losing his magical abilities due to aging and chooses to retire after choosing a successor. He is revealed to be the first human to take up the mantle of Santa Claus after the army of previous Santa Clauses determined that the world needed someone who would be familiar with the development of technology and given the nature of Santa Claus that Calvin had naturally within; all of his traits being what the world needs. Liam Seja portrays Calvin as a child during a flashback sequence.
Elizabeth Mitchell as Carol Calvin / Mrs. Claus: Calvin's wife, who he married during The Santa Clause 2. Carol has grown inquisitive as to her greater purpose as Santa's wife over the years, and is receptive to his decision to retire. Finding success once again in her role as a school principal when they move out of the North Pole, she begins to believe that Calvin's decision was best for the entire family.
Austin Kane as Buddy "Cal" Calvin-Claus: Scott's youngest son, Carol's only son, Sandra's brother, and Charlie's paternal half brother. Cal at first is excited to experience life in his own way, believing that he did not hold the same skills that his father seems to have. Over the course of the series, it is revealed that he possesses magical abilities due to being born in the North Pole and the spirit of Christmas. The character first appeared in The Santa Clause 3: The Escape Clause, where he was named Buddy after his maternal grandfather.
Elizabeth Allen-Dick as Sandra Calvin-Claus: Scott and Carol's daughter and youngest child; Buddy's sister and Charlie's paternal half-sister. Sandra enjoys living in at the North Pole, and is hesitant to move away when her father decides to retire. At the confusion of her parents, she often develops close friendships with animals. Over the course of the series, it's revealed that she has magical abilities that she inherited from Santa Claus and the spirit of Christmas.
Matilda Lawler as Betty (season 1; recurring: season 2): Chief of Staff at the North Pole, and Noel's wife.
Devin Bright as Noel: The current right-hand elf at the North Pole, Betty's husband, and one of Santa's best friends.
Rupali Redd as Grace Choksi (season 1): Simon's kind-hearted daughter, who believes in the spirit of Christmas. Grace is excited to live at the North Pole, and experience the joys of Christmas every day. Her mother expressed desires for the feelings of Christmas every day, prior to passing from a major illness.
Kal Penn as Simon Choksi / Santa Claus (season 1): The man that Scott Calvin chooses to be his successor as Santa Claus at the North Pole. Prior to his new role, Choski is a game inventor, product developer, and single father with aspirations to become the equivalent of "the next Jeff Bezos" in the technology world. When he is appointed as the ne