The Second Best Hospital in the Galaxy is an American adult animated science fiction comedy series created by Cirocco Dunlap for the streaming service Amazon Prime Video. The series centers on two intergalactic surgeons and best friends as they treat illnesses throughout the galaxy, and was produced by Amazon MGM Studios, Animal Pictures, and Titmouse, Inc., with Dunlap as showrunner.
The series stars the voices of Kieran Culkin, Stephanie Hsu, Natasha Lyonne, Keke Palmer, Maya Rudolph, Andrew Dismukes, Gary Anthony Williams, Lennon Parham, and Sam Smith. Dunlap first conceived the series after wondering how it would be if there were people who could treat the ailments of characters in science-fiction movies. The series was announced in 2022, with Rudolph and Lyonne also set to executive produce. The series draws heavy inspiration from Dunlap's personal life, particularly in its depiction of anxiety. Animation services were provided by Titmouse, Inc.
The Second Best Hospital in the Galaxy premiered on Amazon Prime Video in February 23, 2024, to a generally positive reception. A second season is in production.


== Premise ==
The series is a science fiction medical comedy set in the Ergulon Galaxy in the year 14002. It centers on two female alien surgeons, Drs. Sleech and Klak, as they treat patients with illnesses evocative of common science fiction tropes, such as an alien parasite that feeds off its host's cortisol and a patient trapped in a time loop, while trying to balance their personal and professional lives.


== Cast and characters ==


=== Main cast ===
Stephanie Hsu as Dr. Sleech
Keke Palmer as Dr. Klak
Natasha Lyonne as Nurse Tup
Kieran Culkin as Dr. Plowp
Maya Rudolph as Dr. Vlam
Andrew Dismukes as Matt
Gary Anthony Williams as Flork 1
Lennon Parham as Flork 2
Sam Smith as Dr. Azel


== Episodes ==


== Production ==


=== Development ===
Cirocco Dunlap first conceived the concept for the series while watching the film Groundhog Day. As she watched the film, she pondered how it would be if there were doctors that could help people deal with incidents like the one depicted in the film. This inspired her to create a show about a hospital where characters such as The Thing from John Carpenter's 1982 film served as patients. She wanted Natasha Lyonne to work with her on the show due to their previous collaboration in the series Russian Doll. Having liked the idea, Lyonne agreed to work on the project in addition to hiring Maya Rudolph as an executive producer; Rudolph wanted to work on the series due to its optimistic depiction of the future.
In May 23, 2022, it was announced that Amazon Studios has given a two-season order to The Hospital, an animated series created by Dunlap and executive produced by Rudolph and Lyonne via their Animal Pictures production banner, with Titmouse, Inc. also producing. Dunlap was set to serve as showrunner for the series, which has been in development since 2020. The series had been renamed as The Second Best Hospital in the Galaxy by December 2023; the name originated as a tagline for the show, before being turned into its title at Amazon's request, something Dunlap agreed to. Production on the series took place during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Writing for season 2 took place during production for season 1, with Dunlap treating it as developing a single 16-episode series. Dunlap has also expressed interest in a third season that could further explore certain characters.


=== Writing ===
The writer's room for the series was composed entirely of female and LGBTQ+ writers. Dunlap based part of the show on her personal life, with the series' focus on anxiety being inspired by Dunlap's own struggles with anxiety over the years. Her initial pitch for the series originally had anxiety as an episodic theme and a bigger focus on time travel, before anxiety transitioned into a season-long theme at Lyonne's suggestion as the writers developed the first season and struggled to find a thematic resona