Devil: The British Secret Agent is a 2023 Indian Telugu-language action drama film written by Srikanth Vissa and directed by Abhishek Nama and Naveen Medaram. Produced by Abhishek Nama and Devansh Nama under Abhishek Pictures, it stars Nandamuri Kalyan Ram, Samyuktha Menon, Vasishta N. Simha, Edward Sonnenblick and Elnaaz Norouzi. 
Devil: The British Secret Agent was theatrically released in India on 29 December 2023 and received mixed reviews from critics.


== Plot ==
  
The story is set in 1945 pre-independent India. Agent Devil is an officer of the IPI, who is sent undercover as a police officer to investigate the death of Vijaya, the daughter of a landlord in Rasapadu under Madras Presidency. Vijaya’s father is arrested as the killer owing to his shame in Vijaya falling in love with Bhuma, a domestic worker in their house. Devil’s investigation almost immediately leads him to believe that the landlord is innocent and that Vijaya’s death is part of a much bigger conspiracy. Bhuma is revealed to be missing and a cook in the house named Rani is discovered to be dead. In the investigation proceeds, an unknown assailant finds out wounded Bhuma and kills him along with his father Ramana who is also a domestic worker in the house.
Simultaneous to the investigation, Devil falls in love with Nyshadha, the niece of the landlord's wife. She is a Barrister from London and being an orphan resides with the family. However, Nyshadha is hostile towards Devil. Based on accounts of the landlord's neighbour and business partner Patwari and his celebrity wife Rosy an Anglo-Indian woman, Devil discovers that Patwari informed the landlord of his daughter’s affair after discovering his own wife’s affair with the landlord. However, Patwari had not witnessed the murder and that rather, Vijaya subdued her own father, rendering him unconscious and asked Bhuma escape. 
Devil finds Nyshadha having a rendezvous with a stranger in her room and confronts them. The stranger is revealed to be Samudra and Nyshadha reveals that she and Samudra are a part of the Azad Hind Fauj, colloquially referred to as the INA. Then Nyshadha reveals to Devil that the code has been stolen from her by unknown person which links to INA at the time of Vijaya's murder, and claims that she and Samudra are innocent. Then Devil discovers that Subhash Chandra Bose is due to land in India soon and the whereabouts of his landing are to be known only to Trivarna, Bose’s close confident and second-in-command whose identity is unknown. Clement, a British officer, is later assassinated by Trivarna, who is revealed to be INC leader Manimekala for killing one of the INA Agents Venkata Chalam. Meanwhile Nyshadha begins to fall in love with Devil after he is successful in the landlord's acquittal regarding Vijaya’s murder case.
It is revealed that Devil was sent undercover to Rasapadu to investigate Nyshadha as she was revealed to have decoded and sent out the message which specified details of Netaji’s landing. The codes were leaked by Agent Trojan to General Kenneth Bracken, who assigned Devil to go after Nyshadha. After the first part of the codes, which specifies the time and location of the landing, are cracked, Bracken deems Nyshadha useless to them and has orders sent out for her to be killed by tribal decoits. However, she is saved by Devil. The latter tells Bracken that he managed to crack the second part of the code, which says Nyshadha has to meet Trivarna and exchange the “All Clear” message for Netaji to land in India and therefore, Nyshadha must remain alive. 
Nyshadha is arrested, but is rescued by Devil, rendering her a fugitive with a ransom of Rs.500 on her head, which leaves her unable to contact Trivarna. She entrusts Devil with the task of contacting Trivarna. Devil posts a letter with the decoded message, which is obtained by Manimekala. Meanwhile Shafi, a close confidant of Trivarna, meets the second-in-command of INA and alerts them the code has been leaked and plans