Mrs. Brisby is a fictional field mouse and the protagonist of the 1982 animated adventure film The Secret of NIMH, directed by Don Bluth. Adapted from the 1971 children's novel, Mrs. Frisby and the Rats of NIMH, in which she is originally named "Mrs. Frisby", she is voiced by Elizabeth Hartman in her final film role, who, by her own accord, made the character sound shy and timid. She was originally named "Mrs. Frisby" during the production of the film, like the book character, but was renamed due to a trademark issue with Mattel's Frisbee.
In the 1982 film, Mrs. Brisby is a widowed mother of four children in a world inhabited by humans. She has to move her children to save them from a human-operated plow but also has to manage her son Timothy, who caught pneumonia and therefore must stay inside to recover from it. As a result, she seeks the "Rats of NIMH" to help relocate her children and home. Eventually, using a red amulet necklace that was given to her by the rat leader Nicodemus and powered by the wearer's courage, she rescues both from sinking in mud. 
Since her debut, Mrs. Brisby has been mostly positively received for her timid personality combined with her kindness and courage, with critics citing her as a unique representation of a mother character who braves through an actively hostile world to save her children. Unofficially, she is also referred to as "Mrs. Elizabeth Brisby" by fans in honor of her voice actress.


== Development ==


=== Origin ===
Mrs. Brisby first appears in the 1982 film The Secret of NIMH, directed by Don Bluth, which is directly based on the fantasy/science fiction children's book Mrs. Frisby and the Rats of NIMH, which was written in 1971 by Robert C. O'Brien and illustrated by Zena Bernstein. The book won the Newbery Medal in 1972. The book's story follows a widowed field mouse named Mrs. Frisby, who cares for her four children in a farmer's garden. The farmer, Fitzgibbon, was planning on deploying his plow for his garden, meaning Mrs. Frisby had to move her family out of the garden. Because her son, according to the doctor mouse, Mr. Ages, was gravely ill and therefore could not survive having to travel out of his home, Mrs. Frisby must seek help from an old owl, and the bird informed her to seek out an intelligent rodent group called the "Rats of NIMH" (abbreviation of National Institute of Mental Health) so that they could help to relocate Mrs. Frisby's house and thereby save Timothy and the other children. 
Don Bluth's independent animation career from Walt Disney Animation Studios began in 1979 when he and his colleagues Gary Goldman and John Pomeroy began experimenting with a classical style of animation that they felt was lacking in Disney's studio. After independently producing the short film Banjo the Woodpile Cat in his own Don Bluth Productions, another film production company called Aurora Productions contacted them, offering them a budget for a feature film. Bluth and sixteen other people left Disney to produce the movie. Bluth, in his autobiography, praised the story told in Mrs. Frisby and the Rats of NIMH, speculating that Walt Disney would have adapted it into a movie if O'Brien contacted him while both were still alive.


=== Characterization and design ===

Consistent with O'Brien's book, Don Bluth went on to make Mrs. Frisby the protagonist of his adaptation. In the film, Mrs. Brisby is a field mouse who dons a red cape. She is a widowed mother who cares for her four children and lives with a housekeeper named Auntie Shrew. Mrs. Brisby is kind and soft-spoken in personality, but in a mournful state due to the death of her husband which occurred before the film's events. Throughout the film, her forename and maiden name are never revealed. Mrs. Brisby's emotional strength was drawn from that of Bluth's grandmother. Bluth wrote that the "timid yet brave Mrs. Frisby" reminded him of his grandmother because she worked hard to care for her thirteen children and always advised