Set It Off is a 1996 American heist crime action film directed by F. Gary Gray and written by Kate Lanier and Takashi Bufford. The film stars Jada Pinkett, Queen Latifah, Vivica A. Fox, and Kimberly Elise (in her film acting debut). It follows four close friends in Los Angeles, California, who plan to execute a bank robbery—each doing so for different reasons—to achieve better for themselves and their families.
The film was a box office success, grossing over $41 million against a budget of $9 million. The film earned positive reviews from critics, who praised the characters, music and performances of the cast (particularly that of Pinkett and Latifah), as well as the chemistry of the four leading actresses. The soundtrack was a commercial success, peaking at number four on the Billboard 200 and number three on the Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums. Additionally, the singles "Set It Off", "Don't Let Go (Love)", "Days of Our Livez", "Angel", "Come On", "Let It Go" and "Missing You" each charted.


== Plot ==
Francesca "Frankie" Sutton (Fox) is a Los Angeles bank teller who is fired after a robbery because she recognized one of the robbers from her Southern Californian neighborhood. Although she did not personally know the robber, she’s also implicated as an inside person by Detective Strode. Frankie goes to work at Luther's Janitorial Services with her three best friends, Lida "Stony" Newsom (Pinkett), Cleopatra "Cleo" Sims (Latifah), and Tisean "T.T." Williams (Elise). The owner, Luther, treats them with disrespect and pays them paltry wages. 
Tired of working a low-paying job, Frankie explains that they should rob a bank themselves. Cleo agrees, but Stony and T.T. are reluctant. However, after Stony's younger brother Stevie, is gunned down by the police in a case of mistaken identity with one of the bank robbers from Frankie's bank and T.T.'s son is taken away from her by Child Protective Services, they too now have the motivation to join the robbery.
While casing a bank with T.T., Stony meets bank manager Keith Weston whom she starts dating. The four women embark on a series of successful bank robberies due to Frankie's inside knowledge of bank protocol with money and security. An investigation by LAPD Detective Strode ensues. Strode suspects that Cleo (because of her prior convictions), Frankie (because of her inadvertent connection to the earlier robbery and subsequent firing) and Stony (because of her brother's death) are involved. But his superior refuses to allow him to bring them in for questioning because he doesn't feel the evidence is sufficient.
Concerned with the safety of their money, the four women stash the money in an air vent at one of their work sites. However, when Cleo, Frankie, and T.T. show up for work one day and find a new boss in charge, they quickly realize that Luther has discovered the money and fled with it. While Stony attends a banking event with Keith, ending the night with passionate lovemaking, the three women track Luther to a motel where he is sleeping with a prostitute.
The women demand the return of their money, but Luther refuses to give it up and pulls a gun on Cleo, forcing T.T. to shoot him dead in self-defense. Cleo is soon brought in by Strode over for questioning for Luther's murder but manages to intimidate the prostitute into not identifying her. Later, after hearing what happened, Stony is disappointed and angry with Frankie and T.T. about the missing money, Luther's death, and Cleo being brought in for a lineup. They debate robbing another bank, but Stony is reluctant due to the police attention. Eventually, Frankie and Cleo persuade Stony that they need to rob another bank and leave town the next day.
The women decide to rob the Downtown Federal bank, the city’s largest bank and Keith's place of work. Concerned for Keith's safety and not wanting him to know she's a bank robber, Stony calls Keith and tells him to meet her at a café, far from the location of the bank. The four women quickl