During the 2023 Hamas-led attack on Israel, Israeli women and girls were reportedly subject to sexual violence, including rape and sexual assault by Hamas or other Gazan militants. The militants involved in the attack are accused of having committed acts of gender-based violence, war crimes and crimes against humanity. Hamas has denied that its fighters committed rape and assault against women. During the 7 October attacks by Hamas on Israeli communities, Israeli women and girls were reportedly raped, assaulted, and mutilated by Hamas militants, an allegation that Hamas denies. Israeli police said dozens of women and some men were raped. The New York Times and the BBC reported that "videos of naked and bloodied women filmed by Hamas on the day of the attack, and photographs of bodies taken at the sites afterwards, suggest that women were sexually targeted by their attackers". 
It was reported that some released hostages' testimonies indicated that both female and male hostages had been subjected to sexual violence by their captors while being held by Hamas in Gaza. In late March 2024, Amit Soussana, a released Israeli hostage, told The New York Times that she had been sexually abused by her Hamas captor. 
The UN was initially criticised for its muted response to sexual violence. A UN report in March 2024 concluded that there was "clear and convincing information" that Israeli hostages in Gaza experienced "sexual violence, including rape, sexualized torture, and cruel, inhumane and degrading treatment", that there are "reasonable grounds" to believe such abuse is "ongoing"  and there was also "reasonable grounds to believe that conflict-related sexual violence occurred during the 7 October attacks in multiple locations across Gaza periphery, including rape and gang-rape, in at least three locations": the Nova music festival and its vicinities of Road 232 and kibbutz Re'im.  The UN noted that the acts of sexual violence that were detailed in the report constituted "evidence [that] rises above 'reasonable grounds to believe' yet falls below 'beyond a reasonable doubt.'" A "fully fledged" investigation would be needed to establish the latter. The UN stated that the mission and report was not investigative in nature, but designed to collect and verify allegations. consequently, later on 24 April UN refused to acknowledge the rape allegations against Hamas and didn’t include the group in the blacklist of state and non-state parties guilty of sexual violence in 2023 due to the lack of evidence. 
Ha'aretz summarise the media coverage: "On the one hand, pro-Palestinian websites are conducting an intensive campaign of denial, endeavoring to call into question the reliability of findings and testimonies. On the other hand, Israeli spokespersons latch onto every gut-wrenching report in their efforts to persuade the world of the truth of the atrocities that were perpetrated, and in some cases also invoke them in order to excoriate the enemy and score political points." A high-profile report in the New York Times in December, entitled "Screams Without Words", was especially widely criticized.
Witnesses described the perpetrators using shovels, beheading victims, engaged in rapes, and even playing with severed body parts, although a number of testimonies were subsequently discredited. These acts were denounced as gender-based violence, war crimes, and crimes against humanity, aligning with the International Criminal Court's recognition of sexual violence as such. Some of the released hostages reportedly mentioned sexual abuse having occurred during their time in Gaza.
Israel accused international women's rights and human rights groups of downplaying the assaults. Hamas denied that it committed any sexual assaults, and has called for an impartial international investigation into the accusations. On January 2024, UN experts Alice Jill Edwards and Morris Tidball-Binz said in a statement that the sexual violence acts amounted to war crimes which

