Shadows of Doubt is a first-person detective stealth video game by British developer ColePowered Games. It was released in early access on April 24, 2023, for Microsoft Windows. Upon its early access release, Shadows of Doubt received average reviews, with critics praising the innovative potential of the game's open-ended, player-directed design, whilst critiquing its repetitive elements and bugs. 


== Gameplay ==
Shadows of Doubt is an open-world detective investigation game played from a first-person perspective. The player works as a private investigator who pursues murder cases in a city. The city's layout, its citizens and their routines, and all murder cases are procedurally-generated per save file, and the player can choose the city's name, size, and seed. The player has access to police transmissions and is alerted whenever a murder is reported, allowing them to open a case. The details of each murder case are randomly configured: murders may occur anywhere and at any time, any citizen can be involved, the crime can be carried out through a variety of lethal methods, and the available forensic evidence can include fingerprints, surveillance camera footage, witness observations, and more. The player also has to contend with false leads, time-sensitive evidence, anti-intrusion security measures ranging from locked doors to automated turrets, and hostile responses from citizens who catch the player doing anything illegal.
The player can complete a murder case by submitting a case resolution form to the local city hall. The form has five fields: the suspect's full name, their address, a piece of evidence placing the suspect at the crime scene, the murder weapon, and whether the suspect has been placed under arrest. Only the murderer's name is required for a successful submission, but a cash bonus is rewarded for each optional field that is correctly filled out. If the player accuses the wrong citizen, they will be fined and the real murderer will continue killing. Sometime after a murder case is resolved, the game will automatically select another citizen to carry out the next string of killings, presenting the player with a fresh case.
The player's overarching goal is to increase their social credit score by solving murder cases. Reaching the maximum social credit score enables the player to leave their city and enter retirement, concluding the game. Meanwhile, money earned from murder cases and various odd jobs is needed to purchase certain investigation tools, rent and furnish an apartment, pay for medical care when injured, pay off fines, and bribe citizens for information or access to restricted areas.


== Setting ==
Shadows of Doubt takes place in an alternate history that diverges from the real world in the year 1610: Henry IV of France is not assassinated, allowing English inventor William Lee's knitting machine to spur an early industrial revolution in France. Consequently, the Jacobite rising of 1745 prevails in England and Charles Edward Stuart is crowned King Charles III, leading to lasting peace between the two countries and the subsequent formation of an Anglo-French Empire under Louis XVI, which in turn quells the American Revolution in 1776. The Empire is torn apart by rebellions during the Mustard War from 1891 to 1901, and then reorganized into the democratic United Atlantic States in 1902, which enshrines corporate personhood into law in order to rebuild its economy. In 1965, Starch Kola, the world's oldest megacorporation, is elected President of the UAS and replaces local police forces with the privatized Starch Kola Enforcers.
The current year is 1979, and the player is a citizen of the UAS. Due to hyper-industrialization, radioactive fallout from the Mustard War, and rising sea levels caused by global warming, most people live and work in cramped, smog-shrouded cities isolated by the toxic water. Every UAS citizen dreams of attaining the lofty social credit score necessary to retire to The Fields, 