Shakes the Clown is a 1991 American black comedy film directed and written by Bobcat Goldthwait, who performs the title role. It also features Julie Brown, Blake Clark, Paul Dooley, Kathy Griffin, Florence Henderson, Tom Kenny, Adam Sandler, Scott Herriott, LaWanda Page, Jack Gallagher, and a cameo by Robin Williams as Mime Jerry using the pseudonym "Marty Fromage".
The film is a satire of performance art and portrays different communities of clowns and other performers as clannish, rivalrous subcultures obsessed with precedence and status. Goldthwait made the film as a satire of the dysfunctional standup comedy circuit at the time he was first starting out as an entertainer. When the film was first released, it was widely panned, but in recent years, reaction has become more favorable, largely due to how the film handled the serious topic of alcoholism. Shakes the Clown has since become a cult classic.


== Plot ==
In the fictional town of Palukaville, Shakes is a good natured but depressed and alcoholic birthday-party clown. After his father died, Shakes was raised by his father's friend, Owen Cheese, who gave Shakes his job as a clown and owns the local clown bar, the Twisted Balloon. Shakes is excited because he auditioned to be the host of a children's clown show on television called the Big Time Cartoon Circus, after its original host, Peppy, was fired for sexual harassment. Shakes falls deeper into his depression when he learns that he has been passed over for the position in favor of Binky, a cocaine-addicted clown who is a neurotic and vindictive sexual predator and psychopath.
Shakes's clown friends, Dink and Stenchy are concerned that he drinks too much and often encourage him to quit. On top of that, his alcoholism is damaging his relationship with his girlfriend Judy, a waitress in the Twisted Balloon and an aspiring professional bowler. Shakes continually denies the extent of his alcoholism until Cheese finally orders Shakes to sober up, or be fired. Shakes wants to make his father figure proud and is able to get through alcohol withdrawals, and for a time, seems to be doing well. However, Shakes suffers a relapse at a birthday party and trashes the house in a drunken rampage until he is knocked out by the child's mother.
Shakes returns to the bar later that night, where Cheese angrily fires him for upsetting the party guests. Ashamed and heavily intoxicated, Shakes goes into the back room and passes out. Judy, Dink and Stenchy are able to convince Cheese to give Shakes another chance, and when he attempts to find Shakes, he instead comes across Binky, his sad clown friends, HoHo and Boots, and some rodeo clowns, Ty and Randi, doing cocaine. Cheese is angered that they would be selling and doing drugs in his bar, and a panicked Binky beats him to death with Shakes' juggling club in a fit of rage. Shocked, Binky frames Shakes for the murder.
Shakes goes on the run. Convinced of his innocence, Judy, Dink and Stenchy decide to help Shakes clear his name. Until he can find the truth, Shakes goes into hiding, posing as a hated mime in a class taught by the domineering Jerry the Mime. Shakes is concerned deep down that he may have actually committed the murder while blacked out and forgot. Later, Shakes, Dink and Stenchy go to a rodeo clown bar called the Broken Saddle, where they learn from the rodeo clowns that Cheese was actually murdered by Binky. Meanwhile, Binky attempts to rape Judy, who again rebuffs his advances. Binky again gets nervous and accidentally admits to Cheese's murder. Binky knows that he cannot let Judy leave with this information, so he kidnaps her and takes her to the studio where he attempts to kill her live on the air with throwing knives to make it look like an accident.
The rodeo clowns are arrested for their involvement, and Shakes, Dink and Stenchy fight Boots and HoHo, which ends with one of the clowns shooting Shakes. Shakes survives, as his flask stopped the bullet. Shakes, Dink and Ste