Cloud Nine is the eleventh studio album by the English rock musician George Harrison. The album was recorded and released in 1987 after Harrison had taken a five-year hiatus from his career as a solo artist. The hit single "Got My Mind Set on You" from this album re-established Harrison as a critically acclaimed and commercially significant recording artist. Cloud Nine was Harrison's final solo studio album to be released during his lifetime; his next album Brainwashed was released in 2002, almost a year after his death.


== Background and recording ==
Frustrated with the changing musical climate, Harrison suspended his recording career in the early 1980s. Instead of recording, he opted to pursue other interests, including film production with his own company, Handmade Films. The odd soundtrack or charity song would surface during this period, but otherwise, it was a musically silent period for Harrison.
By late 1986, after a substantial break, Harrison felt the desire to make music again. He asked former Electric Light Orchestra (ELO) leader and fellow musician Jeff Lynne to co-produce a new album with him. After writing a round of new compositions (including the songs already contributed to the 1986 film Shanghai Surprise), Harrison entered his home studio Friar Park in Henley-on-Thames on 5 January 1987 to begin recording his first new commercial album in five years. Having recorded the backing tracks for seventeen songs between January and March, he completed the album's overdubs in August 1987.
Besides Harrison and Lynne, other artists involved in the sessions included Jim Keltner and Ringo Starr on drums, Eric Clapton on guitar, and both Gary Wright and Elton John on piano (the latter was recovering from vocal surgery at the time). With new-found enthusiasm, Harrison actively promoted the album.


== Cover art ==
The cover features Harrison's first American-made guitar, a 1957 Gretsch 6128 Duo Jet that he purchased in Liverpool in 1961. He gave his "old black Gretsch" to his longtime friend Klaus Voormann, who had it for 20 years before Harrison asked for it back. After having it restored, Harrison used the guitar for the Cloud Nine cover shoot.


== Release and aftermath ==
Harrison's cover of Rudy Clark's little-known song "Got My Mind Set on You" quickly reached number 1 in the United States and number 2 in the United Kingdom. It was Harrison's first single to top the US charts since "Give Me Love (Give Me Peace on Earth)" in 1973. A few weeks later, Cloud Nine was released to high anticipation and a favourable critical reception.
The album went to No. 10 in the UK. In the US, it peaked at No. 8 on the Billboard 200 chart and No. 4 on the Cash Box Top 200, and achieved platinum status; later, it was number 1 on Cash Box's Top 40 Compact Discs chart.
The "Got My Mind Set on You" single and its accompanying video re-introduced Harrison to the mainstream, and the Beatles tribute song "When We Was Fab" was a successful follow-up, reaching the top 25 in both the UK and US. The third single taken from the album, "This Is Love", was a minor hit in the UK.
While the success of Cloud Nine was not enough to spur Harrison to tour, it inspired him to continue making music. In the spring of 1988, along with Lynne, he would call up friends Bob Dylan, Tom Petty, and Roy Orbison and begin a project ultimately realised as the Traveling Wilburys.
In 2004, Cloud Nine was remastered and reissued by Dark Horse Records (with new distribution by EMI), both separately, and as part of the deluxe box set The Dark Horse Years 1976–1992. The reissue included the bonus tracks "Shanghai Surprise" and "Zig Zag" from the 1986 film Shanghai Surprise ("Zig Zag" had also been released as the B-side of the "When We Was Fab" single).


== Critical reception ==

Writing in Rolling Stone, David Wild described Cloud Nine as "an expertly crafted, endlessly infectious record that constitutes Harrison's best album since 1970s inspired All Things Must Pass". W