Shanghai Surprise is a 1986 adventure comedy film directed by Jim Goddard and starring then-newlyweds Sean Penn and Madonna. The screenplay was adapted by John Kohn and Robert Bentley from Tony Kenrick's 1978 novel Faraday's Flowers. Produced by George Harrison's HandMade Films and distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Harrison himself appears in the film as a night club singer, and he wrote and recorded five original songs for the soundtrack: "Shanghai Surprise", "Someplace Else", "Breath Away from Heaven", "Zig Zag", and "Hottest Gong in Town". The film was a critical and commercial failure, and an official soundtrack album was never released.


== Plot summary ==
Glendon Wasey is a sleazy, down-on-his-luck con man struggling to sell glow-in-the-dark neckties in Shanghai. When he encounters the lovely Gloria Tatlock, a missionary nurse who wants to obtain a supply of opium to ease the suffering of her patients, he decides to help her get hold of a stolen supply of the valuable drug. The only problem is that a lot of other people want to secure the stolen opium as well—gangsters, smugglers, thugs and a host of upstanding air force recruits.


== Cast ==


== Production ==
In November 1985 it was announced Madonna and then newlywed husband Sean Penn had signed to do Shanghai Surprise with principal photography set to begin in Macau and Hong Kong by January 1986. Due to the high profile status of the stars real life relationship, by the second day of filming the production of the film was often inundated with photographers to the point Penn demanded the film's publicist be fired and replaced. According to co-star Richard Griffiths, "Sean Penn always had an ace of trumps up his sleeve. He'd play his ace of trumps, win the trick and then put it back up his sleeve and then when the next drama was played, he'd pull out his ace of trumps again. And the ace of trumps was this: in Madonna's contract, and Penn was very sore about this because he saw himself as the star of the movie, there was a clause and it said Madonna shall have the casting approval of her leading man. In other words, if you don't do what I say, says Sean Penn, I quit and, if I quit, she won't agree with any other guy playing my part because, hey, she's my wife, and you don't have a movie, so go and f*ck yourselves. Do as I say or I'm out of here. Boy, did he know how to manipulate that situation with Madonna."
George Harrison even reluctantly flew to Hong Kong to try and smooth things over between the cast and press. Jim Goddard's initial cut of the film was rejected by executives at MGM, and Gooddard's attempts to find alternative distribution were fruitless resulting in his return to MGM. Prior to release both Madonna and Penn attempted to distance themselves from the film with the two insisting their likenesses be removed from the tie-in novel from Viking Press a few days before it was set to hit printers.


== Marketing ==
Shanghai Surprise debuted following a "great deal of hype and promotion" in the United Kingdom, including being hyped on the music television programme The Tube. In the United States, however, as The Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported in October 1986, "The movie opened so poorly in its first wave of playdates (late August in the Northeast and Midwest) that MGM has made severe cuts in its marketing budget. One MGM exec was quoted in the trades as saying this was necessary because 'the interest in the film has been non-existent.'"


== Soundtrack ==
While an official soundtrack album for the film was never released, the title track was issued as a promotional single in 1986, new versions of both "Breath Away from Heaven" and "Someplace Else" were recorded for inclusion on Harrison's 1987 album Cloud Nine, an alternate mix of "Zig Zag" (with the notable addition of backing vocals) was released as the B-side of Harrison's "When We Was Fab" single in early 1988, and "Hottest Gong in Town" was included on the EP that came with the 1992 book Songs 