Shiloh (; Hebrew: שִׁלֹה, שִׁלוֹ ,שִׁילֹה, שִׁילוֹ, romanized: Šīlō) was an ancient city and sanctuary in ancient Israel located in the region of Samaria. According to the Hebrew Bible, Shiloh was one of the main centers of Israelite worship during the pre-monarchic period, before the First Temple in Jerusalem was built. After the Israelite conquest of Canaan, the Tabernacle was moved to Shiloh, and remained there during the period of the biblical judges.
Shiloh has been positively identified with modern Khirbet Seilun, a tell known in Modern Hebrew as Tel Shiloh. It is located 31 kilometres (19 mi) north of Jerusalem, in the West Bank, to the west of the modern Israeli settlement town of Shilo and to the north of the Palestinian town of Turmus Ayya. Relative to other archaeological sites, it is south of the biblical town of Lebonah and 16 kilometres (10 mi) north of Bethel. G. F. Moore has suggested identifying Bochim as Shiloh.


== Etymology ==
The meaning of the word "Shiloh" is unclear. Sometimes, it is translated as a Messianic title, which means He Whose It Is or as Pacific, Pacificator or Tranquility and refers to the Samaritan Pentateuch. Regardless, the name of Shiloh the town is derived from שלה‎ and may be translated as Tranquility Town.


== Identification ==
Shiloh is situated just east of the Jerusalem–Nablus road, 31 km north of Jerusalem. It was identified unambiguously with Khirbet Seilun, based on the much detailed biblical description of the site:

So they said, "Look, the yearly festival of Yahweh is taking place at Shiloh, which is north of Bethel, on the east of the highway that goes up from Bethel to Shechem, and south of Lebonah."
The Arabic name, Khirbet Seilun, preserves the ancient Hebrew name.
In the 4th century CE, Eusebius and Jerome demonstrated some awareness of Shiloh's location as did the cartographer of the Madaba Map in the 6th century. In 1838, the American biblical scholar Edward Robinson became the first modern person to correctly identify Khirbet Seilun as Shiloh based on the biblical description of its location.


== History ==


=== Bronze Age ===
During the Middle and Late Bronze Age Canaan, Shiloh was a walled city with a religious shrine or sanctuary.


=== Iron Age ===
Shiloh was one of the main centers of Israelite worship during the pre-monarchic period.


==== In the Hebrew Bible ====
Shiloh is mentioned in the Books of  Genesis, Joshua, Judges, 1 Samuel, 1 Kings, Psalms, and Jeremiah.
Shiloh was first mentioned in the Hebrew Bible in the Book of Genesis, verse 49:10, "The scepter shall not depart from Judah, nor the ruler's staff from between his feet, until Shiloh comes; And to him shall be the obedience of the peoples." In the Book of Joshua, when the Israelites arrived in the land, they set up there the Tent of Meeting (Hebrew: Ohel-Mo'ed). There Joshua and Eleazar divided the land among the tribes who had not yet received their allocation (Joshua 18:1–10) and dealt with the allocation of cities to the Levites (Joshua 21:1–8). Subsequently, Shiloh became one of the leading religious shrines in ancient Israel, a status it held until shortly before David's elevation of Jerusalem.

The whole congregation of Israel assembled together at Shiloh and set up the tent (or tabernacle) of the congregation there. 
The tabernacle had been built under Moses' direction from God (Exodus 26) to house the Ark of the Covenant, also made according to Moses' instructions from God (Exodus 25). Talmudic sources state that the tent sanctuary remained at Shiloh for 369 years  until the Ark of the Covenant was taken into the battle camp at Eben-Ezer (1 Samuel 4:3–5) and captured by the Philistines at Aphek (probably Antipatris). At some point during its long stay at Shiloh, the portable tent seems to have been enclosed within a compound—a Greek "temenos". It was at Shiloh that Eli and Samuel ministered (1 Samuel 3:21). At some point, the Tent of Meeting was moved to Gibeon, which became an Israelite