Six of a Kind is an American 1934 pre-Code comedy film directed by Leo McCarey and starring Charles Ruggles, Mary Boland, W.C. Fields, George Burns, and Gracie Allen.
A critical and box office success, Six of a Kind features the famous pocket billiards (pool) playing scene in which Fields explains how he got the name “Honest John”. 


== Plot ==
Married for twenty years, J. Pinkham and Flora Whinney prepare to embark on a long-awaited second honeymoon, destination Hollywood, California. Flora, a housewife, and “Pinky,” a bank clerk, have normalized the exchange of petty insults during their marriage, rituals that have obscured expression of their genuine affection. They anticipate escaping from their middle-class conventionality and reanimating their intimacy on a two-week “gypsy interlude.” 
Pinky, who freely shares his planned itinerary at work, is enlisted by a shady colleague, Ferguson, to transport a suitcase on the journey to their first stop in their itinerary in Glen Falls, New York (fictional). The gullible Pinky does not suspect that Ferguson has placed $50,000 in cash from the bank vault in his suitcase; Ferguson plans to secretly intercept the couple and switch bags in Glen Falls, implicating the McWhinneys in the heist, while he escapes.
Flora, an inveterate miser, advertises for a compatible couple to join them on the trip to trim expenses. The pair who respond to the offer are an unmarried twosome, George Edward and Grace Devore (“Gracie for short”), who are accompanied by their enormous Great Dane, Rang Tang Tang. The couple, especially Gracie, turn out to be certifiable eccentrics. Their gigantic dog is content only when sitting in the front seat of the car. The Whinneys carefully arranged honeymoon is quickly thrown into disarray.
The unmarried status of George and Grace affronts the conventionality of the Whinneys with regard to sleeping arrangements. As such, the foursome sleep dormitory style, the two females and two males segregating at bedtime. The situation deprives Pinky and Flora of the intimate solitude they had desired, now forcing them to arrange opportunistic trysts.
After suffering a near disastrous accident at the Grand Canyon and a holdup by hobos, the nomads arrive in Nuggetville, Nevada (fictional). Running low on cash, Pinky wires his bank for a withdrawal. The bank, aware of the robbery and suspecting the Whinneys, alerts law enforcement of their whereabouts; investigators are dispatched. 
In the remote mining town, the McWhinneys take rooms at the local hotel presided over by proprietress Mrs. K. Rumford known as “The Duchess.”  She suspects the couple of being indigent because they are cash-strapped and places their valise under lock and key in case they depart without paying. She discovers the $50,000, and contacts the proper authorities, rather than the local Sheriff “Honest John Hoxley, an irredeemable drunkard. She dares not enlist him in the investigation. However, despite her disapproval, she has routinely kept Hoxley in liquor by loaning him money.
The climax is reached when Pinky is arrested by detectives. The valise reveals not only the cash, but a negligee: Flora momentarily concludes that her husband is having an affair and planned to abscond with a mistress and the money. Ferguson is accidentally locked in the hotel baggage cage by Pinky, and taken into custody by authorities. The negligee turns out to be that of Ferguson’s girlfriend. The McWhinneys are cleared of guilt and have a rapprochement. George and Gracie take leave of the McKinneys and depart for Hollywood.


== Production ==
Director Leo McCarey, who had apprenticed as a third-assistant to filmmaker Tom Browning during the  silent era, had also been schooled in managing Browning’s alcohol consumption on the set. During the filming of Six of a Kind, McCarey had to contend with the notoriously hard-drinking W. C. Fields. 
Actor W. C. Fields registered a complaint with Paramount executives that his character, Sheriff “