Skin Game is a 1971 American independent comedy western directed by Paul Bogart and Gordon Douglas, and starring James Garner and Lou Gossett. The supporting cast features Susan Clark, Ed Asner, Andrew Duggan, Parley Baer and Royal Dano.


== Plot ==
Quincy Drew (Garner) and Jason O'Rourke (Gossett) travel from town to town in the south of the United States during the slavery era. A flashback in the movie shows both men first meeting when Quincy sells Jason a horse that turns out to have been stolen from the local sheriff. They meet again in jail after pulling various con jobs and develop a con together in which Quincy claims to be a down-on-his-luck enslaver who is selling the only person he still enslaves, Jason. Quincy gets the bidding rolling, selling Jason, and the two later meet to split the profit. Jason was born a free man in New Jersey and is well-educated. The con is complicated by Jason being sold to a slave trader who is very savvy and intent on taking him down south to make a profit.


== Cast ==
James Garner as Quincy Drew / Captain Nathaniel Mountjoy
Lou Gossett as Jason O'Rourke
Susan Clark as Ginger / Miss Abigail Blodgett
Brenda Sykes as Naomi, Slave
Edward Asner as Plunkett (runaway slave hunter)
Andrew Duggan as Howard Calloway, Plantation Owner
Henry Jones as Sam Cutler, Slave Buyer In Fair Shake
Neva Patterson as Mrs. Claggart
Parley Baer as Mr. Claggart
George Tyne as Henry P. Bonner, Man Who Bought Jason In Dirty Shame
Royal Dano as John Brown, Abolitionist
Pat O'Malley as William, Slave Buyer In Fair Shake
Jason Wingreen as 2nd Speaker
Joel Fluellen as Uncle Abram, Head Slave At Calloway Manor
Napoleon Whiting as Ned, Calloway Cook
Juanita Moore as Viney, Calloway Slave
Robert Foulk as Sheriff


== Production ==
In January 1966, Harry Keller, a producer at Universal, announced he was developing the project based on a story by Richard Alan Simmons.
In March 1968, Peter Stone signed on to write the script. In October 1968, Universal announced the film for the following year.
In April 1969, Universal put the film on its slate for the following year. Keller would produce with Peter Stone, who wrote the script.
The film did not go ahead. By September 1970, Keller announced the film would be made by James Garner's Cherokee Productions, released through Warner Bros with Burt Kennedy to direct. By December, Kennedy had dropped out and was replaced by Paul Bogart.
In January 1971, Lou Gosset signed to co-star.
In March, Bogart fell ill with hepatitis, and Gordon Douglas took over directing for a period of filming.
Stone later claimed Garner radically changed the film's last third to give him more screen time. These changes annoyed Stone, who used a pseudonym on the film.
Garner called it "a funny movie if you don't mind jokes about slavery. Paul Bogart did a masterly job."


== Sequel ==
A sequel was made three years later as a television film called Sidekicks, with Larry Hagman playing Garner's role and Gossett reprising his part.


== References ==


== External links ==
Skin Game at IMDb 
Skin Game at AllMovie
James Garner Interview on the Charlie Rose Show
James Garner interview at Archive of American Television - (c/o Google Video) - March 17, 1999