Scarlett Pomers (born November 28, 1988) is a former American actress and singer. Her most recognizable roles are Naomi Wildman on Star Trek: Voyager (1998–2001) and Kyra Hart on the television series Reba (2001–2007). Her debut EP, titled Insane, was released January 7, 2010.


== Early life ==
Scarlett Noel Pomers was a fan of hard rock from an early age. She began taking singing and guitar lessons as a child. When she was three years old, an agent who met them at a local shopping mall suggested to her mother Michelle that Scarlett work in acting. Scarlett began doing small jobs until they found an agent they both liked.


== Career ==


=== Acting ===
Scarlett Pomers made her acting debut at the age of three in Michael Jackson's music video, "Heal the World" (1992). She then began doing commercials and has filmed over three dozen to date. She has also starred in a number of television shows, including Judging Amy, That's Life, and Touched by an Angel.
Pomers was five years old when she made her debut on the silver screen in The Baby-Sitters Club. She also appeared in Slappy and the Stinkers, Happy, Texas, Erin Brockovich, and TV-movie Geppetto as well as appearing on the Disney Channel film, A Ring of Endless Light.
Pomers' first major role started in 1998 as Naomi Wildman on the UPN sci-fi program Star Trek: Voyager. She appeared in 17 episodes over three years and won a Young Artist Award for Best Performance in a Drama Series: Supporting Young Actress. Next she joined the cast of the WB series Reba, playing Kyra Hart, the middle child of the titular character. Pomers stayed with the show until it ended in 2007.
Pomers has also appeared as a judge for PAX TV's 2004–05 series America's Most Talented Kids.
In 2014 Pomers said that she was "pretty much [done]" with acting except for some voiceover work, and was making a career in photography and jewelry design.


=== Music ===
In an interview with Modern Guitars Magazine, Pomers talked about how she and her band got together. "I've been singing since I was about six-years-old and I was supposed to finish an album last year when I was on hiatus from Reba, but I dislocated my kneecap for the third time and had to have surgery to keep it from happening again. During my four month recovery, I was pretty unhappy that I couldn't finish working with the writers and producers I was scheduled to do the album with. So by the fourth month I was getting around in my brace and making progress in my physical therapy and my mom said I could put a band together and rehearse sitting down until the brace came off. By that time maybe we could do a show.
What I didn't know was how much fun it would be and now it has become the most amazing experience I've ever had! All of my guys love classic rock and they are really talented and fun to work with."
As a singer, Pomers founded the band SCARLETT, sometimes known as the "Scarlett Pomers Band," which played at venues including the Knitting Factory, House of Blues, Club One-Seven, The Roxy, and the Whisky a Go Go. Her debut EP, Insane, was released on January 7, 2010, through her official website, CDbaby.com, and iTunes. The album consists of five tracks.
Pomers covered an AC/DC classic, "It's a Long Way to the Top (If You Wanna Rock 'n' Roll)", in a tribute album to the band titled Rock & Roll Train: A Millennium Tribute To AC/DC. It was released December 10, 2010 on iTunes.
In 2014 Pomers indicated that she was still involved in music, "but I do it mostly for myself and not for money, not for a living. There’s no money in it anyway." Her musical projects at the time included industrial metal and writing songs for the mandolin, which she had learnt to play.


== Personal life ==
In late 2005, Pomers checked into an anorexia nervosa treatment facility. The 5 ft 2 in (157 cm) actress' weight had dropped to 73 pounds (33 kg) and she was exercising as much as six hours per day. Scarlett's character, Kyra, was absent from most of the fifth season of Reb