Return to Sleepaway Camp is a 2008 American slasher film written and directed by Robert Hiltzik. The fourth film in the Sleepaway Camp film series and first film released direct-to-video, it is a direct sequel to Sleepaway Camp (1983), while ignoring the events of Sleepaway Camp II: Unhappy Campers (1988) and Sleepaway Camp III: Teenage Wasteland (1989). The film features Felissa Rose reprising her role as Angela Baker from the first film, following her recasting in the previous sequels, and Isaac Hayes in a posthumous cameo role as camp chef Charlie.


== Plot ==
Several boys are lighting farts and after failing, Alan threatens them, but is soon stopped by camp counselor, Randy. In the dining hall, Alan gets into a violent confrontation with Randy after he complains about the food. Ronnie allows Alan to get something else to eat, but Alan gets in trouble with cook Mickey. Alan throws a butcher knife at Mickey and the camp owner, Frank, argues with Alan. Alan runs away, with his stepbrother Michael chasing him. In the kitchen, Mickey is killed after being held above and dumped into the deep fryer. His body is dumped in the trash compactor.
During the social, Alan is fooled by Terry "Weed" and Stan into smoking dried cow manure, which makes him cough and falls on Stan's crotch, earning him the nickname "Blowjob.". After the social, Weed is tied to a chair and gasoline is squirted down his throat. The killer sticks a lit cigarette in his mouth and his insides explode. Ronnie suspects the murders that happened twenty five years ago are happening again, but Frank states the murders were accidental. A week later, Michael makes Alan look like he skinned frogs, and Karen and Marie run away. Michael, T.C. and Marie force Karen to lure Alan to the back of the stage, where they take his clothes off, tie him up, blindfold him and embarrass him at the social.
Ronnie suspects that counselor Petey is the killer for always being nearby when Alan is in trouble. After returning to his cabin, Frank is knocked unconscious with a hammer and wakes up with his head inserted in a birdcage. The mysterious killer opens the birdcage and places two rats. The rats eat through his head and down into his intestines. Randy and Linda go to the pump house to have sex. Whilst Randy urinates, the killer ties him to a tree, using fishing line to wrap around his penis. Upon returning, Linda panics after hearing Randy placate the killer and drives off in the jeep, but the fishing line is tied to the jeep and tears off Randy's. Linda crashes after driving through a wrapped barbed wire line, which wraps around her face and kills her.
After Spaz visits T.C., a wooden spear comes through a hole in the floor while T.C. is looking into it and impales him through the eye. Jenny and Ronnie find Frank dead and begin rounding up everyone. Bella goes to her cabin, where she finds that the bunk above her has been replaced with a board with spikes. The killer jumps down from the rafters and lands on the top bunk, causing the spikes to pierce Bella. T.C. and Bella are found dead and Ricky Thomas is called by Sheriff Jerry. Karen bumps into the killer and faints.
Karen wakes up with a rope hanging from a basketball hoop tied around her neck. The killer flips a switch to raise the net, causing Karen to be lifted off the ground. Michael arrives, causing the killer to run off, and lowers the net. After Karen tells him she thinks Alan is the killer,Sheriff Jerry consoles Karen while Michael grabs a croquet mallet and beats Alan with the mallet. The killer appears behind Michael as the screen fades to black.
Ronnie, Ricky and Jenny find a badly-wounded Alan. Sheriff Jerry walks up, explaining through his mechanical voice box that kids never learn and are always mean. Sheriff Jerry reveals himself to be Angela Baker. It's implied she killed Karen.They find Michael, skinned alive on the ground, with Angela laughing maniacally.
In a post-credits scene, a flashback set three weeks before