Super Crooks is a Japanese-American original net anime series based on the 2012 comic book series of the same name by Mark Millar and Leinil Francis Yu. The series was written by Dai Satō and Tsukasa Kondo, and premiered on Netflix on November 25, 2021. Following small-time crook Johnny Bolt as he recruits a team of eight super-villains to perform a super-powered heist, the first nine episodes serve as a prequel to the comic book series, with the last three episodes adapting the comic outright. The series serves as a spin-off to Jupiter's Legacy (2021). In June 2021, a live-action Super Crooks series and second spin-off from the simultaneously-cancelled Jupiter's Legacy was announced to be in active development.


== Premise ==
Small-time crook Johnny Bolt recruits a team of eight super-villains to perform a super-powered heist.


== Characters ==
Johnny Bolt (ジョニー・ボルト, Jonī Boruto)
Voiced by: Kenjiro Tsuda (Japanese); Jonah Scott (English)
Johnny Bolt is the main protagonist and a two-bit crook looking to pull off the ultimate heist. He originally wanted to be a hero, but after accidentally causing a chain reaction of deaths after scaring patrons at a pool when he fell in and electrocuted those in it, he switched to petty larceny to get by.
Kasey (ケイシー, Keishī)
Voiced by: Maaya Sakamoto (Japanese); Abby Trott (English)
Johnny's girlfriend. She has power to implant illusions in people's minds, akin to the power of suggestion. Despite Johnny's bad habit of never listening to her, they have a strong and genuine romance.
Carmine (カーマイン, Kāmain) / The Heat (ザ・ヒート, Za Hīto)
Voiced by: Yasushi Kimura (Japanese); Doug Stone (English)
A famous criminal from the 1970s during his youth. Unlike the rest of the crooks, he has no powers; he instead uses flamethrower gear like Heat Wave. He taught Kasey that pulling off one great heist instead making a living from them was the better move; Heat only ever showed up once a decade to refresh the terror of villainy when things got too dull.
Gladiator (グラディエーター, Guradiētā)
Voiced by: Pierre Taki (Japanese); Cam Clarke (English)
A middle-aged hero whom often cheats on his husband. He is convinced to help the heist after Johnny tricks him into a fake date; Gladiator having sent nude pictures, which serve as blackmail. Despite this fault, Gladiator holds onto a Hero's code and feels disgusted with Proetarian.
Josh (ジョシュ, Joshu) / The Ghost (ザ・ゴースト, Za Gōsuto)
Voiced by: Junichi Suwabe (Japanese); Bill Butts (English)
A sophisticated criminal with the power to phase through solid objects.
TK McCabe (TK・マッケイブ, TK Makkeibu)
Voiced by: Eiji Takemoto (Japanese); Bill Rogers (English)
A small time thief with the power of telekinesis.
Sammy Diesel (サミー・ディーゼル, Samī Dīzeru)
Voiced by: Subaru Kimura (Japanese); Ben Pronsky (English)
The younger of the Diesel brothers. He has the power of regeneration, allowing him to instantly heal from any injury, regrow lost body parts, and even survive being dismembered.
Roddy Diesel (ロディ・ディーゼル, Rodi Dīzeru)
Voiced by: Tetsu Inada (Japanese); Bruno Oliver (English)
The elder of the Diesel brothers. He shares his younger brother's power of regeneration. He possesses a degree in quantum mechanics and wants to fund Time travel.
Forecast (フォアキャスト, Foakyasuto)
Voiced by: KENN (Japanese); Zeno Robinson (English)
A small time crook with the power to manipulate the weather. His goal with his share is to study meteorology in order to fine tune his powers.
Praetorian (プレトリアン, Puretorian)
Voiced by: Wataru Hatano (Japanese); D. C. Douglas (English)
A brutal anti-hero and the secondary antagonist. He randomly gets powers every day which lasts for only 24 hours.
Salamander (サラマンダー, Saramandā)
Voiced by: Hisao Egawa (Japanese); Matthew David Rudd (English)
Matts' right-hand man and successor as head of The Network.
Christopher Matts/The Bastard (クリストファー・マッツ, Kurisutofā Mattsu)
Voiced by: Hiroshi Yanaka (Japanese); Jason Marnocha (English)
A longtime crime boss in charge of The Network,