Soapdish is a 1991 American comedy film directed by Michael Hoffman, from a screenplay by Robert Harling and Andrew Bergman. The film was produced by Aaron Spelling and Alan Greisman, and executive produced by Herbert Ross.
The film tells a backstage story of the cast and crew of a popular fictional television soap opera. It stars Sally Field as a mature soap star, joined by Kevin Kline, Robert Downey Jr., Elisabeth Shue, Whoopi Goldberg, Cathy Moriarty, Teri Hatcher, Garry Marshall, Kathy Najimy, and Carrie Fisher, as well as cameo appearances by TV personalities like Leeza Gibbons, John Tesh (both playing themselves as Entertainment Tonight hosts/reporters), and real-life soap opera actors Stephen Nichols and Finola Hughes.
The film received generally positive reviews. Kline was nominated for a Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Motion Picture Musical or Comedy.


== Plot ==
Celeste Talbert, the long-time star of the daytime drama The Sun Also Sets, is targeted by her ambitious co-star Montana Moorehead; Montana connives to replace Celeste as the star by promising sexual favors to producer David Seton Barnes. To make the audience hate Celeste's character, Montana and David come up with a plot in which she will accidentally kill a young, destitute deaf-mute, played by the newly-cast Lori Craven. Despite the objections of head writer Rose Schwartz and Celeste herself, the scene plays out, but is interrupted by the latter's recognition of Lori as her real-life niece. Network honcho Edmund Edwards sees potential in the relationship and makes Lori a regular cast member, hoping to boost the show's flagging ratings.
Montana and David seek to further unnerve Celeste by bringing back Jeffrey Anderson, an actor whom Celeste arranged to be fired from the show decades before, after his romantic relationship with Celeste went sour. Bitter at being reduced to performing dinner theater in Florida, Jeffrey relishes the chance to needle Celeste. Outwardly despising Jeffrey but still harboring feelings for him, Celeste becomes unhinged when Jeffrey and Lori seem to be about to begin a romantic relationship, seemingly from jealousy. However, when Lori and Jeffrey are about to enact a scripted onscreen kiss, Celeste stops them by revealing that Lori is actually her daughter by Jeffrey. On camera, Celeste explains that she was responsible for getting Jeffrey fired because of being distraught about the pregnancy. Then she went home, passed Lori off as her niece, and had her parents raise Lori, all due to pressure from the network. This incites disgust and scorn from nearly everyone on the show towards Celeste. However, the scandal ignites renewed interest in the show, causing the ratings to skyrocket. A board meeting between the staff—including Rose, who speaks out in Celeste's defense—takes place thereafter, where David insists that she be fired, but he is overruled as the situation has not only resulted in positive press for the show, but has generated a lot of public sympathy for Celeste.
The next day, after an unpleasant exchange with Lori, Celeste goes to Jeffrey and pleads with him to speak to Lori on her behalf. Jeffrey is resistant at first, but after Celeste gives him advice on how to approach her and break the ice, the conversation leads to Celeste and Jeffrey embracing. When it seems the two are about to reconcile, Montana interrupts them and claims that she and Jeffrey slept together the previous night. Disgusted, Celeste storms off. The dilemma is further inflamed when Rose—who by is no longer angry with Celeste—shows her a tabloid newspaper proclaiming that Montana is pregnant with Jeffrey's child. After an explosive exchange, Celeste, Jeffrey, and Lori go to the head of the network and demand that some action must be taken to solve the problem. Lori eventually states: "Mr. Edwards--it's them or me--that is the bottom line here! They go or I go!"
A decision is made by the network, and the actors head into a live episode, still not 