Soldier Soldier is a British television drama series. Created by Lucy Gannon, produced by Central Television and broadcast on the ITV network, it ran for a total of seven series and 82 episodes from 10 June 1991 to 9 December 1997. It featured the daily lives of a group of soldiers in 'A' Company, 1st Battalion The King's Fusiliers, a fictional British Army infantry regiment loosely based on the Royal Regiment of Fusiliers. The title comes from a traditional song of the same name, "Soldier, Soldier, Won't You Marry Me?", an instrumental version of which is used as its theme music.


== Synopsis ==
Set in the immediate aftermath of the Cold War, it is a dramatisation of army life in the early to mid-1990s, when the British Army was undergoing significant change. This is perhaps best demonstrated during the third series, around 1994, when a significant number of real regiments were forced into amalgamations with one another due to downsizing of the army. Within the world of Soldier Soldier, the King's Fusiliers are forced to amalgamate with the Cumbrian Regiment, another fictional regiment, becoming the King's Own Fusiliers. At the time Soldier Soldier was broadcast, the fatality rate was low, with most casualties due to training accidents and suicides. The military as a whole was assigned to performing more peacekeeping missions than actually doing any fighting. As a consequence, the show served well to portray the army, despite the domestic problems that could occur, in a fairly good light.


== Production ==
Although many well known and not so well known actors appeared in Soldier Soldier over the period it was broadcast, perhaps the best known are Robson Green and Jerome Flynn, who portrayed Fusilier Dave Tucker and Sergeant Paddy Garvey respectively. It was their performance of "Unchained Melody" in an episode of the 4th series that propelled them to stardom, giving them several number one songs and a best selling album. At the end of the fifth series in 1995, both actors left the show. After a decline in viewing figures (following their departure), 1997 saw the decision to end the drama after seven series.
TV presenter Chris Kelly wrote and produced some episodes of the series.


== Regular cast ==


=== Military personnel ===


=== Officers ===
Miles Anderson as Lieutenant Colonel Dan Fortune (Series 1–2)
Patrick Drury as General Levy (Series 3)
Robert Gwilym as Lieutenant Colonel Nick Hammond (Series 3)
John Bowe as Lieutenant Colonel Ian Jennings (Series 4)
Duncan Bell as Lieutenant Colonel Paul Philips (Series 5)
Philip Bowen as Lieutenant Colonel Mike Eastwood (Series 6)
James Cosmo as Lieutenant Colonel Philip Drysdale (Series 7)
William Gaminara as Major Harry "Dickie" Bird (Series 1)
David Haig as Major Tom Cadman (Series 1)
Simon Donald as Major Bob Cochrane (Series 2)
Adrian Rawlins as Major Tim Radley (Series 3)
Dougray Scott as Major Rory Taylor (Series 5)
James Callis as Major Tim Forrester (Series 6)
Dorian Healy as Captain (later Major) Kieran Voce (Series 3–4)
Peter Wingfield as Lieutenant Nick Pasco (Series 1)
Angus Macfadyen as Second Lieutenant Alex Fereira (Series 2)
Ben Nealon as Second Lieutenant (later Lieutenant, then Captain) Jeremy Forsythe (Series 4–7)


=== Warrant officers ===
Sean Baker as Company Sergeant Major Chick Henwood (Series 1)
Rob Spendlove as Company Sergeant Major (later Regimental Sergeant Major, then Lieutenant) Michael Stubbs (Series 3–5)
Conor Mullen as Company Sergeant Major Alan Fitzpatrick (Series 7)


=== Non-commissioned officers (NCOs) ===
Robert Glenister as Colour Sergeant (later Lieutenant) Ian Anderson (Series 1)
Richard Dillane as Sergeant Brad Connor (Series 5)
Jonathan Guy Lewis as Sergeant Chris McCleod (Series 6–7)
Gary Love as Corporal  (later Sergeant, and then Corporal again) Anthony "Tony" Wilton (Series 1–4)
Razaaq Adoti as Corporal William Markham (Series 5)
Ian Curtis as Corporal Mark Hobbs (Series 6–7)
Jerome Flynn as Lance Corporal (later Corporal, and t