Solo Leveling, also alternatively translated as Only I Level Up (Korean: 나 혼자만 레벨업; RR: Na Honjaman Rebeleop), is a South Korean web novel written by Chugong. It was serialized in Kakao's digital comic and fiction platform KakaoPage beginning on July 25, 2016, and was later published by D&C Media under their Papyrus label since November 4, 2016. The novel has been licensed in English by Yen Press.
A webtoon adaptation of Solo Leveling was first serialized in KakaoPage on March 4, 2018; it was illustrated by Jang Sung-rak (Dubu). The webtoon's first season concluded on March 19, 2020, and its second season was released from August 2020 to December 2021. Its individual chapters have been collected and published by D&C Media in nine volumes as of August 2023. The webtoon has been licensed in English by Yen Press.
An anime television series adaptation produced by A-1 Pictures aired from January to March 2024. A second season, entitled Arise from the Shadow, has been announced.
A Korean drama adaptation is in development and spin-off webtoon Solo Leveling: Ragnarok is set to premiere in 2024.
A role-playing video game titled Solo Leveling: Arise has been released by Netmarble.


== Plot ==
In a world where hunters — human warriors who possess supernatural abilities — must battle deadly monsters to protect mankind from certain annihilation, a notoriously weak hunter named Sung Jinwoo finds himself in a seemingly endless struggle for survival. One day, after narrowly surviving an overwhelmingly powerful double dungeon that nearly wipes out his entire party, a mysterious program called the System chooses him as its sole player and in turn, gives him the unique ability to level up in strength. This is something no other hunter is able to do, as a hunter's abilities are set once they awaken. Jinwoo then sets out on a journey as he fights against all kinds of enemies, both man and monster, to discover the secrets of the dungeons and the true source of his powers. He soon discovers that he has been chosen to inherit the position of Shadow Monarch, essentially turning him into an immortal necromancer who has absolute rule over the dead. He is the only monarch who fights to save humanity, as the other monarchs are all trying to kill him and wipe out the humans.


== Characters ==
Sung Jin-woo
Voiced by: Taito Ban (Japanese); Aleks Le (English)
Japanese name: Shun Mizushino (水篠 旬, Mizushino Shun)
Sung Jin-woo (성진우; Seong Jin-u) is the main protagonist of the series. Originally an infamously weak E-Rank hunter, he gets the chance of a lifetime when he is selected as the Player of a magical program called the System and gains the unique ability to grow in strength without limit. By taking advantage of this new power offered to him by the System, Jinwoo eventually rises up to become humanity's greatest hunter, but also eventually finds himself to be a major player in a war that has been going on forever between the Rulers and the Monarchs, two groups of unbelievably powerful humanoids who have their own agendas with mankind, as he is inherited Ashborn's power, becoming the second Shadow Monarch.
Yoo Jin-ho
Voiced by: Genta Nakamura (Japanese); Justin Briner (English)
Japanese name: Kenta Morobishi (諸菱 賢太, Morobishi Kenta)
Yoo Jin-ho (유진호; Yu Jin-ho) is a Korean D-Rank Hunter and Jinwoo's best friend. He comes from a very wealthy family and eventually becomes the vice chairman of Jinwoo's guild after he impresses the latter with his sense of loyalty and commitment. Jinho also shares a brother-like relationship with Jinwoo, due to the fact that he is estranged from his biological brother and tends to dress up in very fancy and expensive armor that he usually buys from foreign manufacturers, which serves as a prominent running gag throughout the series.
Sung Jin-ah
Voiced by: Haruna Mikawa (Japanese); Rebecca Wang (English)
Japanese name: Aoi Mizushino (水篠 葵, Mizushino Aoi)
Sung Jinah (성진아; Seong Jin-a) is Jinwoo's younger sister. Unlike her broth