Someone to Watch Over Me is a 1987 American neo-noir romantic thriller film directed by Ridley Scott and written by Howard Franklin. It stars Tom Berenger as a police detective who has to protect a wealthy woman (Mimi Rogers), who is a key witness in a murder trial. The film's soundtrack includes the George and Ira Gershwin song from which the film takes its title, recorded by Sting, and Vangelis' "Memories of Green", originally from Scott's Blade Runner (1982).


== Plot ==
Socialite Claire Gregory attends a party and art show sponsored by one of her oldest friends, Winn Hockings. Accompanying her is her straitlaced boyfriend, Neil Steinhart. In another part of town, there is another party, this one for newly appointed NYPD detective Mike Keegan.
Winn is accosted by a former partner, Joey Venza, who is angry because Winn had not come to him to borrow money for his new art studio. After a short argument, he stabs Winn to death. Claire witnesses the killing, she screams and is spotted by Venza. He pursues her, but she manages to get back into the elevator just in time.
The police are called in and the new detective Keegan is there. He is a married man, but immediately falls for Claire. Along with fellow cops, he is assigned to protect Claire until she can make a positive ID of Venza (once he is arrested) and testify in court.
Keegan is determined to protect Claire and goes to extremes to do so. Venza makes numerous threats and attempts on her life, nearly succeeding at one point. Keegan and his wife Ellie separate over his involvement in the case. He and Claire acknowledge their love but Keegan cannot bring himself to simply abandon his family.
At the end, Venza, who draws out Keegan by taking his son hostage, is shot by Ellie and killed. Claire breaks up with Neil and intends to go to Europe to get over Keegan, who returns to his wife and son.


== Cast ==
Tom Berenger as Detective Mike Keegan
Mimi Rogers as Claire Gregory
Lorraine Bracco as Ellie Keegan
Jerry Orbach as Lieutenant Garber
John Rubinstein as Neil Steinhart
Andreas Katsulas as Joey Venza
Tony Di Benedetto as T.J.
Jim Moriarty as Koontz
Daniel Hugh Kelly as Scotty
Mark Moses as Win Hockings
Harley Cross as Tommy Keegan


== Production ==
The film was initially pitched to Scott in 1982 during a dinner party by Howard Franklin. It was primarily written by Franklin by late 1982 with Scott years later bringing in Danilo Bach and David Seltzer to refine it. Ridley Scott made the film following Legend which had been a notable box office failure. In July 1986 Alan Ladd, Jr. announced the film would be made for MGM. By September the project had shifted to Columbia Pictures where David Puttnam, who produced Scott's debut feature The Duellists, was head of production. Tom Berenger was cast in the lead role on the strength of his performance in Platoon.
Principal photography began on December 8, 1986 with the shoot lasting thirteen weeks. Locations included Bergdorf Goodman department store, Central Park, Guggenheim Museum and various streets on the Upper East Side. Production moved to Burbank Studios on January 19, 1987 to film the interior of Miss Gregory's apartment and Mike Keegan's home in Queens. The interiors used for the nightclub scenes were filmed on the RMS Queen Mary docked in Long Beach.


== Release ==
Someone to Watch Over Me was released in the United States on October 9, 1987. It was the first film greenlit by Puttnam to be released, but by the time it was released, Puttnam had resigned.


=== Home media ===
The film was originally released in the United States on VHS in May 1988 and did better on home video. It was first released on remastered DVD in October 1999 by Sony Pictures with widescreen and full-screen format options, including production notes and theatrical trailers. Shout! Factory released it on Blu-ray under their Shout Select banner on March 12, 2019 including two new extra features, an interview with screenwriter Howard Franklin and an interv