Edward George Farhat (June 7, 1926 – January 18, 2003) was an American professional wrestler, better known by his ring name The Sheik (often called The Original Sheik to distinguish him from The Iron Sheik, who debuted in 1972). In wrestling, Farhat is credited as one of the originators of the hardcore style. In addition to his in-ring career, he was also the promoter of Big Time Wrestling, which promoted shows at Cobo Hall in Detroit until the 1980s, and was the booker for Frank Tunney's shows at Maple Leaf Gardens in Toronto from 1971 to 1977.
Farhat is the uncle of Extreme Championship Wrestling alumnus Sabu, who he also trained.


== Early life ==
Edward George Farhat was born on June 7, 1926, to a Lebanese family in Lansing, Michigan. He was one of eleven children; unlike most of his older brothers, Edward did not attend college, though some sources erroneously report that he did. The confusion is likely the result of his similarly named older brother Edmund having attended college. Edward quit school in the eighth grade and worked odd jobs during the Great Depression.
During World War II, he falsified his records in an unsuccessful attempt to join the United States Army, likely using his older brother Edmund's birth certificate. Edward would eventually be drafted in 1944, serving during World War II. He was honorably discharged in 1946 after 18 months of service.
Despite portraying an Arab Muslim in professional wrestling, Farhat was a Maronite Catholic.


== Professional wrestling career ==


=== Early career and cementing The Sheik gimmick (1947–1965) ===
After completing his service in the U.S. Army, Farhat competed in his first professional wrestling match in January 1947, wrestling as the clean-cut babyface "Eddie Farhat". Within a few years of his debut, Farhat would develop his "Sheik" gimmick, under which he would gain international fame. Farhat first started wrestling as The Sheik of Araby in the Chicago area, with the gimmick initially being that of a privileged son of a wealthy, aristocratic Middle Eastern family. As the Sheik of Araby, Farhat formed a tag team with Gypsy Joe, with the duo capturing the NWA Midwestern Tag Team Championship in 1954, before eventually moving to Texas. During this period, The Sheik received the biggest match of his career up to that point, when he was booked to face NWA World Heavyweight Champion Lou Thesz in Chicago for his title. Thesz, regarded in wrestling as a legitimate shooter, had a reputation for embarrassing "gimmick wrestlers" so The Sheik left the ring during the course of the match and hid under a bus in the parking lot. The incident received much coverage in local media and helped to push The Sheik character to a more prominent level. Following the incident, The Sheik began wrestling in New York for Vincent J. McMahon at Madison Square Garden where he teamed with Dick The Bruiser and Bull Curry in feuds against Mark Lewin and Don Curtis as well as the team of Antonino Rocca and Miguel Pérez. On August 18, 1961, The Sheik was notably defeated by Buddy Rogers in a 2-out-of-3 falls match at the Cincinnati Gardens.
By the early 1960s, The Sheik's wrestling was centered on his character of an Arab wild man from Syria. Clad with his keffiyeh, before each match, he would use stalling tactics as he would kneel on a prayer rug to perform an Islamic prayer to Allah (in real life Farhat was a Maronite Christian). He would lock on choke holds and refuse to break them, and use a camel clutch hold leading to submission victories. The hold would have him sit over his opponent's back as he applied a chinlock. He used hidden pencils and other "foreign objects" to cut open his opponent's faces. Often, the tactic backfired and the opponent got hold of The Sheik's pencil, leading to the extensive blade scars on Farhat's forehead. Sheik's other signature illegal move was his fireball that he threw into his opponents' faces, sometimes burning their faces severely. The fireball move was p