Spaceballs is a 1987 American space opera parody film co-written, produced and directed by Mel Brooks. It is primarily a parody of the original Star Wars trilogy, but also parodies other sci-fi films and popular franchises including Star Trek, Alien, The Wizard of Oz, 2001: A Space Odyssey, Planet of the Apes, and Transformers. The film stars Bill Pullman, John Candy, and Rick Moranis, with the supporting cast including Daphne Zuniga, Dick Van Patten, George Wyner, Lorene Yarnell, and the voice of Joan Rivers. In addition to Brooks playing a dual role, the film also features Brooks regulars Dom DeLuise and Rudy De Luca in cameo appearances.
In Spaceballs, heroic mercenary Lone Starr (Pullman) and his alien sidekick Barf (Candy) rescue Princess Vespa (Zuniga) of Druidia and her droid, Dot Matrix (Yarnell, voiced by Rivers), from being captured by the Spaceballs, led by President Skroob (Brooks), who wants to use Vespa as ransom to obtain Druidia's air for their own planet. However, the heroes get stranded on a desert moon, where they encounter the wise Yogurt (also Brooks), who teaches Starr about the metaphysical power known as "the Schwartz". Meanwhile, Spaceball commanders Dark Helmet (Moranis) and Colonel Sandurz (Wyner) lead the search for them but are hindered by their own incompetence.
The film was released by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer (MGM) on June 24, 1987.


== Plot ==
Planet Spaceball, led by the incompetent President Skroob, has squandered all of its fresh air. Skroob schemes to steal the atmosphere from the neighboring planet of Druidia by forcing its ruler King Roland to give him the code to the shield surrounding it. Roland's daughter Princess Vespa flees Druidia in order to avoid an arranged marriage to the narcoleptic Prince Valium. The ship Spaceball One, commanded by Colonel Sandurz and carrying Skroob's enforcer Dark Helmet, is dispatched to kidnap Vespa and her droid servant Dot Matrix.
Mercenary Lone Starr and his "Mawg" (half man, half dog) companion Barf are contacted by crime boss Pizza the Hutt to get him the money he owes them or else. When Barf asks "or else what", Pizza the Hutt's robotic minion Vinny quotes "or else Pizza is gonna send out for you". Roland contacts Lone Starr and offers them a high reward if they bring Vespa and Dot back to Druidia. In their Winnebago spaceship Eagle 5, the pair retrieve Vespa and Dot and escape via light speed before they can be brought aboard Spaceball One. Dark Helmet and a reluctant Sandurz use "Ludicrous Speed", but overshoot the group badly when they try to follow. Eagle 5 runs out of fuel and Lone Starr is forced to crash-land on a desert moon.
The four escapees travel on foot for a time, but ultimately pass out in the relentless heat. They are found by the Dink-Dinks, a group of diminutive aliens in sparkly robes, and taken to the hidden cave of the sage Yogurt. He advertises the film's tie-in merchandising, then begins to instruct Lone Starr in the ways of a mysterious power known as the Schwartz (which Helmet can also control). Lone Starr and Vespa develop romantic feelings for each other, despite Vespa's insistence that she can only marry a prince, and Lone Starr shows Yogurt a medallion bearing an indecipherable message that was found with him when he was abandoned as a baby.
The Spaceballs break the fourth wall by going through a VHS copy of the film to locate the Eagle 5's whereabouts. Helmet disguises himself as Roland to lure Vespa and Dot out of the cave. As Lone Starr and Barf prepare to chase Helmet, Yogurt gives Lone Starr a ring that he can use to channel the Schwartz.
Helmet extorts the air shield code from Roland by threatening to have a plastic surgeon reverse Vespa's nose job, then imprisons her and Dot. Lone Starr and Barf infiltrate the prison and break them out, and all four escape in Eagle 5 while leaving their stunt doubles to be captured. Spaceball One re-configures itself into a giant maid (Mega-Maid), opens the shield, and uses a vacuum c