Species II is a 1998 American science fiction horror thriller film directed by Peter Medak. The film is a sequel to Species (1995) and the second installment in the Species series. The film stars Michael Madsen, Natasha Henstridge, Marg Helgenberger, Mykelti Williamson, George Dzundza, James Cromwell and Justin Lazard. In addition to Madsen and Helgenberger reprising their roles, Henstridge also returned for the sequel as a new character. The plot has Patrick Ross, the astronaut son of a senator, being infected by an extraterrestrial organism during a mission to Mars and causing the deaths of many women upon his return. To stop him, the scientists who created the human-extraterrestrial hybrid Sil in the original Species try using a more docile clone of hers, Eve.
The film was theatrically released on April 10, 1998. Compared to its predecessor, the film was panned by critics and was a box-office bomb, only grossing $30 million worldwide, and $19.2 million domestically. Despite this, a made-for-television sequel, Species III, was released in 2004.


== Plot ==
Roughly two years after the events of Species, an American space mission lands on Mars, and collects soil samples. Back on board, the temperature on the ship thaws the frozen alien DNA within one of the soil samples, which then attempts to infect the astronauts, causing a seven-minute time gap in radio contact between Earth and the shuttle. The mission is still considered a success and the crew safely returns to Earth, greeted by fans and cheers. Only Dr. Cromwell, a former scientist and now an inmate in an asylum, reacts to their return with violent fits.
Under military supervision, a team of scientists, led by Dr. Laura Baker, have created a more-docile clone of Sil, named Eve, in an effort to understand the alien life form and prepare for defense, should it ever arrive on Earth in the future.
After their return, the three astronauts are examined and quarantined to prevent them from engaging in copulation/sexual activity for ten days. However, after an honor party for the astronauts, one of them, Patrick Ross, who was absent from the party for some time as he was making out with a woman referred to as the Debutante, immediately disregards the quarantine and has sex with two women in a hotel suite later that night. The Debutante, after having sex with Patrick, undergoes an accelerated pregnancy in which her stomach expands outward with Patrick's child, splits open like a flower and the hybrid child emerges from her womb, leaving her screaming and then killing her while Patrick continues having sex with her sister, sprouting tentacles during the session. Later that night, Patrick hides the rapidly-growing hybrid child along with another hybrid child conceived with the Debutante's sister in a remote shed.
An isolated Eve, undergoing tests in the lab, shows signs of great, physiological excitement every time Patrick has sex with women.
At the space center, while Dr. Orinsky tries to contact Dr. Cromwell about the astronauts' blood samples, Patrick sneaks into the lab and disembowls him so that no one finds out that he is carrying alien DNA (although, in one alternate video version, Patrick's blood takes on a life of its own: breaking free of its glass container; flowing into one of the walls; and, then, forming the radula-like tentacle that kills Orinsky). Analysis of the corpse reveals the presence of alien DNA, similar to, yet distinct from, Eve's. Baker is reunited with Press Lennox to contain the threat. The two contact Cromwell, who explains that Mars was rendered uninhabitable by an alien species, and that he was institutionalized to silence his opposition to the Mars mission. It is revealed that he had conducted research on a Martian meteorite that had been found, discovering fossilized remains that weren't native to Mars, and tried to urge the American government to reconsider their mission to Mars on the grounds that alien DNA still remained on the planet, and that