Speed 2: Cruise Control is the soundtrack album for the 1997 film of the same name.  It was released by Virgin Records in May 1997, nearly a month before the film's release. Because of the film's Caribbean setting, the soundtrack features a variety of reggae music from artists including Common Sense, Jimmy Cliff, Maxi Priest and Shaggy.  UB40, Carlinhos Brown and Tamia also have songs on the soundtrack, and appear in the film as entertainers on the cruise ship.
In addition to reggae, the soundtrack features a techno remix of the film score by Tetsuya "TK" Komuro and an R&B song by Tamia (which is sung by her character in the film). Many of the songs were first released on the soundtrack, and five were released as singles.  The soundtrack received mixed reviews from critics, although it was praised for featuring reggae music.


== Music performed in the film ==
Speed 2: Cruise Control, the action thriller sequel to 1994's Speed starring Sandra Bullock, Jason Patric and Willem Dafoe, was released in 1997. The film is set on a cruise ship in the Caribbean; to complement its setting, the soundtrack primarily features reggae music. Speed 2 director-producer Jan de Bont wanted musicians to appear in the film as the ship's live entertainment.  Four songs heard in Speed 2 were performed by the musicians appearing in the film, three of which were featured on the soundtrack album.
British reggae band UB40 perform "Can't Help Falling in Love" and "Tell Me Is It True".  The former is a cover of an Elvis Presley song recorded by UB40 for the soundtrack to Sliver (1993) and released on their album, Promises and Lies (1993).  "Tell Me Is It True" was first released on the Speed 2 soundtrack album and was later featured on UB40's studio album, Guns in the Ghetto (released ten days after the soundtrack album). The band was featured in the film after the filmmakers heard a demo of "Tell Me Is It True", and wrote a cameo appearance for them into the script.
Brazilian singer Carlinhos Brown was also featured in the film, performing "A Namorada" (from his 1997 album, Alfagamabetizado). De Bont chose Brown because he wanted music that was "lively", and thought Brown's music was "very physical" and "full of energy".
While UB40 and Brown appeared in the film as themselves, De Bont also wanted to feature a musician as one of the characters who gets trapped on the ship.  He selected Canadian R&B singer Tamia because he wanted someone who could sing and act. Tamia did not plan on acting in a film so early in her career, but said the part was "too perfect for [her] to resist". She worked with de Bont and Quincy Jones to choose a song for the film; they decided on "Make Tonight Beautiful", written by Diane Warren.


== Additional music ==
Jamaican musician Shaggy wanted to include his cover of the Erma Franklin song "Piece of My Heart", but was unable because it was to be used in the soundtrack for an upcoming biographical film about Janis Joplin. He instead used his original song, "My Dream"; both tracks were later featured on Shaggy's next album Midnite Lover, released in August 1997.
American reggae band Common Sense featured their song, "Never Give Up", from their debut album Psychedelic Surf Groove (1996). When they appeared on the soundtrack, they did not have a recording contract with a major record label; lead singer Jai Vatuk said in June 1997 that the band had begun negotiations with the soundtrack's label, Virgin Records.; Virgin re-released Psychedelic Surf Groove later that year, and signed a contract with the band in 1998.
Jamaican reggae musician Jimmy Cliff contributed to the soundtrack with a re-recording of "You Can Get It If You Really Want" from The Harder They Come (1972); Barbadian reggae singer Rayvon featured his song, "Some People", before its release on his album Hear Me Cry, released in June 1997.
British reggae singer Maxi Priest was featured on the soundtrack after recording "It Starts in the Heart" for the soundtrack to Jungl