Speechless is an American television sitcom that aired on ABC from September 21, 2016, to April 12, 2019. Created by Scott Silveri and co-executive produced with Christine Gernon, Jake Kasdan, and Melvin Mar, the 20th Century Fox Television/ABC Studios co-production was greenlighted to series order on May 13, 2016. A first-look trailer was released on the same day. Starring Minnie Driver, John Ross Bowie and Micah Fowler, the sitcom explores the serious and humorous challenges a family faces with a teenager with a disability. On September 29, 2016, the series was picked up for a full 22-episode season. An additional episode was ordered on December 13, 2016, for a 23-episode season. On May 10, 2019, ABC cancelled the series after three seasons.


== Plot ==

The series follows the DiMeo family, each with a unique personality: Maya, a take-charge British mother with a no-holds-barred attitude; her husband Jimmy, who does not seem to care what others think; Dylan, their no-nonsense athletic daughter; Ray, their scholarly middle child who acts as the "voice of reason" in the family; and their oldest son, JJ — a high schooler who has a biting wit and sense of humor, and is diagnosed with cerebral palsy. JJ communicates by using headgear with a laser pointer to indicate various words, letters, and numbers on a board attached to his wheelchair. One of the reasons the DiMeos move frequently, is due to an attempt to find a good educational environment for JJ. They believe they have found an optimal choice when they discover a school that prides itself on being inclusive and where JJ will have an aide support him throughout the school day. Because the school is in an upscale part of town, Jimmy and Maya move the family into the cheapest, most rundown house in an otherwise nice neighborhood. Though they quickly find that not everything is as good as it could be. JJ enjoys having Kenneth, a gentle, well-meaning school groundskeeper with a deep and resonant speaking voice, work as his aide.


== Cast and characters ==


=== Main ===
Minnie Driver as Maya DiMeo, the fierce and determined mother of the family
John Ross Bowie as Jimmy DiMeo, the fun-loving, easily persuadable father of the family who is a supervisor of baggage handlers at the airport
Mason Cook as Raymond "Ray" DiMeo, the middle child. Slender and nerdy, he faces constant harassment, mostly from Dylan.
Micah Fowler as Jimmy "JJ" DiMeo Jr., The eldest child with cerebral palsy. He is non-speaking (thus the show's title) and uses a wheelchair. He has a crush on Emma Watson, which serves as a running gag on the show.
Kyla Kenedy as Dylan DiMeo, the athletic youngest child, and only daughter. She enjoys pulling pranks and harassing others, especially Ray.
Cedric Yarbrough as Kenneth Clements, the good-natured aide to JJ who serves as his voice. Although he and Maya tend to butt heads, she is appreciative of his work.


=== Recurring ===
Pepper, the happy Golden Retriever who's supposed to be Dylan's pet, but acts like he's more fond of the others
Marin Hinkle as Dr. Ava Miller, the principal of the kids' school who is easily influenced by Maya
Jonathan Slavin as Mr. Powers, one of JJ's teachers
Liz Cackowski as Joyce, JJ's physiotherapist
Sarah Chalke as Melanie Hertzal, Taylor's mother
Kayla Maisonet as Izzy, JJ's girlfriend
Jack Dylan Grazer as Rev
David Lengel as Tad
Sedona Cohen as Taylor, Ray's ex-girlfriend
Cole Massie as Logan, Melanie's son, Taylor's brother, and JJ's nemesis
Karly Rothenberg as Crossing Guard


=== Special guests ===
Rob Corddry as Billy, Jimmy's brother
Andrea Anders as Audrey, Billy's wife
Julianne Hough as Miss Bloom, the new choir teacher at the kids' school
Jamie Denbo as Janet, the DiMeos' insurance agent
Jim O'Heir as Stu, the DiMeos' former insurance agent
Ken Marino as Ethan, Maya's ex-boyfriend
Michaela Watkins as Becca, a new mom at the group of families with disabled kids
Zach Anner as Lee, a wheelchair-using young man who Maya asks to speak 