The Spitfire Grill is an American musical with music and book by James Valcq and lyrics and book by Fred Alley, based on the 1996 film of the same name by Lee David Zlotoff. The off-Broadway production by Playwrights Horizons began previews at the Duke Theatre on 42nd Street on September 7, 2001, and concluded its scheduled run on October 14, 2001. It won the Richard Rodgers Production Award, administered by the American Academy of Arts and Letters. The musical depicts the journey of a young woman just released from prison, who decides to start her life anew in a rural town in Wisconsin. She participates in a journey within the town toward its own tenuous reawakening.


== History ==
Authors James Valcq and Fred Alley had been friends since high-school music camp in 1980, but  they did not collaborate until 1994 on The Passage for Alley's American Folklore Theatre in Wisconsin. New York-based Valcq was seeking a follow-up project for the pair after his Zombies from the Beyond closed off-Broadway in 1995. They wanted to create a piece of populist theatre with elements of myth and folktale. Upon seeing the film The Spitfire Grill, they had found their vehicle. Actual writing of the musical commenced in October 1999.
A demonstration tape of a few songs from the score found its way to David Saint, artistic director of the George Street Playhouse in New Jersey. The theatre presented a workshop of the show in June, 2000, featuring Helen Gallagher as Hannah, and produced the world premiere production in November 2000, featuring Beth Fowler as Hannah. Throughout the process, Arthur Laurents mentored the creative team, encouraging them to find their own emotional truth in the material. The ending of the musical is entirely different from the ending of the film.
Ira Weitzman, associate producer of musicals at Playwrights Horizons, and Tim Sanford, the artistic director, saw the George Street production and announced that The Spitfire Grill would open the 2000–2001 season at Playwrights Horizons after a May workshop. One week before the workshop, Alley suffered a fatal heart attack at the age of 38 while jogging in the woods near his Wisconsin home.
Two weeks later, The Spitfire Grill was presented with the Richard Rodgers Production Award. Stephen Sondheim chaired the committee that chose The Spitfire Grill as the winner. The remainder of the group comprised Lynn Ahrens, Jack Beeson, John Guare, Sheldon Harnick, R.W.B. Lewis, Richard Maltby Jr., and Robert Ward.
The off-Broadway production featured Phyllis Somerville as Hannah, Garrett Long as Percy, Liz Callaway as Shelby, Steven Pasquale as Joe, Armand Schultz as Caleb, Mary Gordon Murray as Effie, and Stephen Sinclair as Eli.  It was directed by David Saint. The show received Best Musical nominations from the Outer Critics Circle and Drama League, as well as Drama Desk nominations for Garrett Long as Outstanding Actress in a Musical and Liz Callaway as Outstanding Featured Actress in a Musical.
Since the Playwrights Horizons production, The Spitfire Grill has been produced over 700 times worldwide in regional theatres, festivals, stock, community, and school productions. Foreign-language versions have been produced in Germany in 2005; in South Korea in 2007, 2012, and 2015; in Japan in 2009; and in The Netherlands in 2018. Notable American versions include a co-production by American Folklore Theatre (co-founded by Fred Alley) and Skylight Opera Theatre (2002), which featured Phyllis Somerville as Hannah, the West Coast premiere at Laguna Playhouse (2002), which won the OC Award for Best Musical, and the Idaho Shakespeare Festival production in 2006, which was conducted by James Valcq. The musical had its UK premiere at the 2008 Edinburgh Festival Fringe in a production by the Royal Scottish Academy of Music and Drama and its Australian premiere in July 2010 by the Margaret River Theatre Group.
In 2011, American Folklore Theatre produced a 10th-anniversary production that was directe