Stardust Memories is a 1980 American comedy-drama film written and directed by Woody Allen, who stars alongside Charlotte Rampling, Jessica Harper, Marie-Christine Barrault, and Tony Roberts. Sharon Stone has a brief role, in her film debut. It follows a filmmaker who recalls his life and his loves—the inspirations for his films—while attending a retrospective of his work. The film is shot in black and white and is reminiscent of Federico Fellini's 8½ (1963), which it parodies.
Stardust Memories was nominated for a Writers Guild of America Award for Best Comedy Written Directly for the Screenplay, but was not warmly received by critics on its original release, and is not among the most renowned works in Allen's filmography. The film has nonetheless been re-evaluated to some extent, with modern reception more often positive than negative. Allen, who denies that the work is autobiographical and has expressed regret that audiences interpreted it as such, has cited Stardust Memories as one of his own favorite films.


== Plot ==
Sandy Bates is a director of comedy films. His latest film ends with a surreal sequence in which a character (played by Sandy) is trapped on a train carriage surrounded by grotesque and unhappy figures. The character looks out the carriage window and sees another train filled with beautiful and happy people. Convinced he is on the wrong train, he tries unsuccessfully to get off the train before it speeds away. In the next scene, all the characters from the train wander aimlessly through an immense garbage dump. Sandy's character sees that the passengers from the other train have also ended up at the dump. Studio executives, having watched Sandy's film, complain that it is uncommercial and depressing. When this is conveyed to Sandy, he insists that he no longer wants to make shallow comedy films, as this no longer feels honest to him.
Sandy's managers remind him that he is scheduled to appear at a weekend-long retrospective of his films at the Stardust Hotel on the Jersey Shore. He is reluctant but agrees to attend. Through the weekend, Sandy is haunted by memories of Dorrie, a former lover with mental illness issues. He recalls his first meeting with Dorrie on the set of one of his films, the blossoming of their relationship, and its later deterioration through a combination of her insecurities and his philandering. His last meeting with Dorrie takes place in a psychiatric hospital, where she is depressed and heavily medicated.
Arriving at the Stardust Hotel, Sandy is swamped by fans, who often make bizarre or comical requests from him. He attends screenings of his films, and then submits to question and answer sessions. After the first session, he is invited to a nearby club by a young couple, Jack and Daisy, and he eagerly agrees. At the nightclub, Sandy uses an instance of Jack's absence to openly flirt with Daisy.
The following day, Sandy's current lover Isobel, a married mother of two, arrives at the hotel to join him. She announces that she has left her husband. Sandy responds ambivalently to this news, but considers taking their relationship to the next level. Sandy also meets with executives from his film studio, who have reshot the ending of his film, with the characters ending up in "jazz heaven", instead of the garbage dump. Sandy declares the idea to be idiotic, and refuses to accept it.
While talking with his agent on a public phone, Sandy overhears Daisy talking about her sexual ambivalence towards Jack. Later, Sandy organizes an outing alone with Daisy. While the two are together, Sandy's car breaks down and they are forced to continue on foot. They arrive at a large field, where they encounter a congregation of locals awaiting the appearance of flying saucers. During this encounter, Sandy begins losing touch with reality, imagining or hallucinating various figures from his life and films, as well as a group of extraterrestrials (who advise him to continue making comedies). He finally imagin