America: The Story of Us (also internationally known as America: The Story of the U.S.) is a 12-part, 9-hour documentary-drama television miniseries that premiered on April 25, 2010, on History. Produced by Nutopia, the program portrays more than 400 years of American history (with emphasis on how American creation of new technologies has had effects on the nation's history and, by implication, the world). It spans time from the successful English settlement of Jamestown beginning in 1607, through to the present day. Narrated by Liev Schreiber (Danny Webb for the international version), the series recreates many historical events by using actors dressed in the style of the period and computer-generated special effects. The miniseries received mixed reviews by critics; but it attracted the largest audiences of any special aired by the channel to date.


== Episodes ==


== Commentators ==
The following are commentators who appear on the miniseries (listed in alphabetical order):

Buzz Aldrin – Former astronaut and second person to set foot on the Moon.
David Baldacci – Bestselling American novelist.
Tony Bennett – Singer.
Michael Bloomberg – Former Mayor of New York City.
William Bodette – Marine first sergeant.
Anthony Bourdain – American chef and writer.
Henry W. Brands – Historian and Professor of History at University of Texas at Austin.
Tom Brokaw – Journalist and former anchor of NBC Nightly News.
Albert Camarillo – History professor at Stanford University.
Margaret Cho – Comedian, actress, and activist.
Sean "Diddy" Combs – Record producer, rapper, actor, and men's fashion designer.
Sheryl Crow – Singer-songwriter, musician, and actress.
Michael Douglas – Actor and producer.
Melissa Etheridge – Singer-songwriter.
Henry Louis Gates Jr. – Harvard University professor.
Newt Gingrich – Former Speaker of the United States House of Representatives.
Rudy Giuliani – Former Mayor of New York City.
Annette Gordon-Reed – Pulitzer Prize-winning American historian and law professor.
Tim Gunn – Creative director of Liz Claiborne and former mentor on Project Runway.
Sean Hannity – American radio/television host and political commentator.
Rick Harrison – Co-owner of the Gold & Silver Pawn Shop.
Bruce Jenner – American Olympic Gold Medalist and reality TV figure.
Steven Berlin Johnson – American popular science author.
David Kennedy – American historian.
John Lasseter – American animator, former chief creative officer of Pixar and Walt Disney Animation Studios.
John Legend – Recording artist, musician, and actor.
Richard Machowicz – Former Navy SEAL, weapons expert, and host of Future Weapons.
Bill Maher – Political commentator and comedian, and the host of Real Time.
Joseph Marinaccio – American business magnate, founder and CEO of Slam Content.
Barack Obama –  The then-President of the United States of America (introduces the series).
Soledad O'Brien – American journalist and CNN figure.
I. M. Pei – Chinese-born American architect.
David Petraeus – United States Army general and Former Director of the Central Intelligence Agency.
Colin Powell – former Secretary of State and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
Al Sharpton – Baptist minister and civil rights activist.
Richard Slotkin – Olin Professor of English and American studies at Wesleyan University.
Richard Norton Smith – American historian and author specializing in US presidents.
Martha Stewart – Business magnate, media figure, author, and magazine publisher.
Michael Strahan – Former NFL football player and later media personality.
Meryl Streep – Academy Award-winning actress.
Donald Trump – Real estate tycoon, media figure, and later President of the United States.
Jimmy Wales – Co-founder of Wikipedia.
Vera Wang – American fashion designer.
Brian Williams – Former anchor and managing editor of NBC Nightly News.


== Reception ==
The documentary received a 60% approval rating from Metacritic.com. Many criticized the series for having too many "celebrities" express their opini