5 de chocolate y 1 de fresa ("5 Chocolate and 1 Strawberry Ice Creams") is a 1968 Mexican comedy film.  The story involves a student at a convent who undergoes a radical transformation after consuming strange "mushrooms".


== Plot ==
Esperanza is a beautiful, gluttonous, and helpful novice in a cloistered convent. Raised there since childhood, her uneventful life takes a turn when she secretly eats some unusual mushrooms given to her by Oaxacan Indians. This transforms her into Brenda, a bold and shameless woman. Brenda crashes a party at a high-society family's home, where she meets wealthy university students Luis, Pablo, Alberto, Bernardo, and Miguel, the only one who calls her Domitila.
Led by Brenda, the group quickly becomes a gang of mischief-makers, pulling off various pranks throughout Mexico City. Their antics escalate when they decide to kidnap Salvador Montesinos, the president of the Bankers' Association. The commissioner of the International Surveillance Agency is determined to capture the "dangerous subversive" leader of the gang. Meanwhile, Miguel falls in love with Brenda and discovers her dual personality. Finally, AIV agents identify the novice and head to the convent to apprehend her.


== Cast ==
Angélica María — Esperanza / Brenda / Domitila
Fernando Luján — Miguel Ernesto Suárez
Enrique Rambal — Commissioner of the International Surveillance Agency (AIV)
Michel Strauss — Luis
Edmundo Mendoza — Alberto
Agustín Martínez Solares — Bernardo
Juan Ferrara — Pablo
Roberto Cañedo — Salvador Montesinos
Hortensia Santoveña — Sister Remedios
Consuelo Monteagudo — Sister Prudence
Carlos León — AIV Agent
Nathanael León "Frankenstein" — AIV Agent
Víctor Alcocer — Adolfo Jiménez, the union leader
Fernando Saucedo
Ramiro Orcí — Assistant to Salvador Montesinos
Colo Cora
José Peña "Pepet" — Priest
Francisco Reiguera — Club of Bankers' doorman
Mario Iván Martínez
Julián de Meriche — Poker player at the Bankers' club
Enriqueta Reza — Nun
Los Dug Dugs


== External links ==
5 de chocolate y 1 de fresa at IMDb 
5 de chocolate y 1 de fresa, Portal del Cine y el Audiovisual de la Fundación del Nuevo Cine Latinoamericano