Striking Distance is a 1993 American action thriller film starring Bruce Willis as Pittsburgh Police homicide detective Thomas Hardy. The film co-stars Sarah Jessica Parker, Dennis Farina, and Tom Sizemore. It was directed by Rowdy Herrington and written by Herrington and Marty Kaplan.  The film was shot on location throughout Pittsburgh; its early title was Three Rivers.


== Plot ==
Pittsburgh homicide detective Thomas Hardy turns in his partner and cousin, Jimmy Detillo, for using excessive force, which in turn causes him to become alienated by the majority of his fellow officers. Thomas and his father, Vincent, are en route to the Policemen's Ball when a call comes in indicating a serial killer, the Polish Hill Strangler, who Tommy believes is an officer, was spotted driving in downtown Pittsburgh. As Tom and Vince pursue the killer's car, the vehicles collide and both roll down an embankment. After regaining consciousness, Tom learns his father was shot dead and the killer escaped. Police arrest criminal Douglas Kesser as the Strangler. Later, Jimmy jumps off the 31st Street Bridge; his body is never located.
Two years later, an alcoholic Tom has been reassigned to the River Rescue Squad. He was demoted after telling a television reporter that he believed the Strangler was a policeman. Called to the scene of a body dump, Tom finds the victim is an ex-girlfriend. He is assigned a new partner, Jo Christman.  After a nurse is abducted, Tom receives a phone call similar to the ones left by the Strangler. Detective Eddie Eiler, who holds a grudge with Tom for testifying against Jimmy, states on TV the murder was committed by a copycat. Tom is met with opposition by his uncle, Captain Nick Detillo, after suggesting the Strangler is back. Tom steals the Strangler file from the precinct to conduct an unauthorized investigation into the murders. The body of another of Tom's ex-girlfriends is later found.
Tom is invited to the Policemen's Ball by Jo. A tussle occurs there between Tom and the hostile officers in attendance, but Jo intervenes and takes him home. Later that night, the two engage in a confrontation after Jo pours Tom's whiskey down the sink to prevent him from drinking. Tom pleads for her to leave, but Jo refuses and they have sex, unaware someone is watching them.  
The next morning, Tom and Jo river patrol and stumble upon someone dumping what appears to be a wrapped body off a bridge. Tom destroys the suspect's car with a flare gun, but the unidentified individual escapes on foot. Divers retrieve the bundle only to find it to be merely a group of rugs, which leads to Tom and Jo being humiliated by their peers. Later that night in bed, the lovers share their suspicions that the killer dumped the rugs to discredit them. In that conversation, Jo confesses to Tom that she was previously married and now has a four-year-old daughter. 
Meanwhile, Eiler informs Nick that he suspects Tom of the murders. Nick discloses that Tom has been under scrutiny by Internal Affairs. During a court hearing to have Tom removed from the force, it is revealed that Jo's real name is Emily Harper, a Pennsylvania State Police investigator probing Tom for evidence of misconduct. Emily perjures herself and Tom goes free.
That evening, Emily is kidnapped from her apartment just as Tom finds the body of another victim (this time a coworker from River Rescue) outside his houseboat. Thinking that Jimmy's brother Danny has been committing the murders out of revenge, Tom heads upriver to the Detillo family cabin. Just as Danny arrives, someone tases Tom unconscious. Tom awakens to find himself, Danny, and Emily handcuffed to chairs. The killer turns out to be Jimmy, who survived the fall into the river. Jimmy is about to kill Emily when Nick walks in and tells his son to turn himself in. Jimmy instead forces Nick to reveal that Nick arrived at the crash site and confronted the killer and was horrified to find it was Jimmy. Jimmy begged Nick to let him