The Chevrolet Suburban is a series of SUVs built by Chevrolet since the 1935 model year.  The longest-used automobile nameplate in the world, the Chevrolet Suburban is currently in its twelfth generation, introduced for 2021.  Beginning life as one of the first metal-bodied station wagons, the Suburban is the progenitor of the modern full-size SUV, combining a wagon-style body with the chassis and powertrain of a pickup truck.  Alongside its Advance Design, Task Force, and C/K predecessors, the Chevrolet Silverado currently shares chassis and mechanical commonality with the Suburban and other trucks.     
Traditionally one of the most profitable vehicles sold by General Motors, the Suburban has been marketed through both Chevrolet and GMC for nearly its entire production.  Along sharing the Suburban name with Chevrolet, GMC has used several nameplates for the model line; since 2000, the division has marketed it as the GMC Yukon XL.  Since 2003, Cadillac has marketed the Suburban as the Cadillac Escalade ESV.  During the 1990s, GM Australia marketed right-hand drive Suburbans under the Holden brand.    
.The Suburban is sold in the United States, Canada, Mexico, Central America, Chile, Dominican Republic, Bolivia, Peru, Philippines, and the Middle East (except Israel), while the Yukon XL is sold only in North America (exclusive to the United States, Canada, and Mexico) and the Middle East territories (except Israel).
A 2018 iSeeCars.com study identified the Chevrolet Suburban as the car that is driven the most each year. A 2019 iSeeCars.com study named the Chevrolet Suburban the second-ranked longest-lasting vehicle. In December 2019, the Hollywood Chamber of Commerce unveiled a Hollywood Walk of Fame star for the Suburban, noting that the Suburban had been in "1,750 films and TV shows since 1952."


== History ==
Several automotive companies in the United States used the "Suburban" designation to indicate a windowed, station wagon–type body on a commercial frame including DeSoto, Dodge, Plymouth, Studebaker, and Nash, in addition to Chevrolet and GMC. The (Westchester) Suburban name was, in fact, a trademark of U.S. Body and Forging Co. of Tell City, Indiana, which built wooden station wagon bodies for all of these automobile and light truck chassis and more.
Chevrolet began production of its all-steel "carryall-suburban" in 1934. GMC brought out its version in 1937. These vehicles were also known as the "Suburban Carryall" until GM shortened the name to simply "Suburban." GMC's equivalent to the Chevrolet model was originally named "Suburban" as well, until being rebranded as "Yukon XL" for the 2000 model year.
With the end of production of the Plymouth Fury Suburban station wagon in 1978, only General Motors continued to manufacture a vehicle branded as a "Suburban," and GM was awarded an exclusive trademark on the name in 1988. The Chevrolet Suburban is one of the largest SUVs on the market today. It has outlasted competitive vehicles such as the International Harvester Travelall, Jeep Wagoneer, and the Ford Excursion. The latest competitor is the extended-length Ford Expedition EL, which indirectly replaced the Excursion.
The Suburban as of today is a full-size SUV (upgraded to extended-length from 1967 onward to make room for the then-new K5 Blazer that debuted in 1969) with three rows of seating, a full pickup truck frame, and V8 engine. It is one of the few station wagons available with all bench seating rows. The Suburban is the same height and width as the Chevrolet Tahoe, except that the Suburban is 15–20 inches (380–510 mm) longer. The extra length provides a full-sized cargo area behind the nine-passenger seating area.
From 1973 to 2013, it had been available in half-ton and 3/4-ton versions. Chevrolet discontinued this option for the public during the tenth-generation model's tenure after 2013 because of slow sales. However, for the 2016 model year, a one-ton model debuted as an exclusive to rental, fleet, and gov