Suddenly, Last Summer is a 1959 Southern Gothic mystery film based on the 1958 play of the same name by Tennessee Williams. The film was shot in England, Spain and the Balearic Islands. It was directed by Joseph L. Mankiewicz and produced by Sam Spiegel from a screenplay by Gore Vidal and Williams with cinematography by Jack Hildyard and production design by Oliver Messel. The musical score was composed by Buxton Orr, using themes by Malcolm Arnold.
The plot centres on Catherine Holly, a young woman who, at the insistence of her wealthy aunt, is being evaluated by a psychiatric doctor to receive a lobotomy after witnessing the death of her cousin Sebastian Venable while travelling with him in the (fictional) island of Cabeza de Lobo the previous summer.
The film stars Katharine Hepburn, Elizabeth Taylor and Montgomery Clift with Albert Dekker, Mercedes McCambridge, and Gary Raymond.


== Plot ==
In 1937 New Orleans, Catherine Holly is a young woman institutionalized for a severe emotional disturbance that occurred when her cousin, Sebastian Venable, died under strange circumstances while they were on summer holiday in Europe. The late Sebastian's wealthy mother, Violet Venable, makes every effort to deny and suppress the potentially sordid truth about her son and his demise. Toward that end, she attempts to bribe the state hospital's administrator, Lawrence J. Hockstader, by offering to finance a new wing for the underfunded facility if he promises that his brilliant young surgeon, John Cukrowicz, will perform a lobotomy on her niece.
Mrs. Venable meets with Dr. Cukrowicz and describes Sebastian as a sensitive poet, recounting their close relationship and her travels with him. Catherine has been confined to a private women's mental institution since returning from Europe several months earlier, after suffering a severe shock from the events surrounding Sebastian's death—and according to Violet—spouting obscenities. Catherine has been accused by an elderly gardener at the institution of attempting to seduce him and then accusing him of sexual assault upon his resisting her advances. After seeing the beautiful Catherine, Cukrowicz is skeptical.
Beginning to doubt that Catherine is as deranged as Mrs. Venable claims, Cukrowicz moves Catherine into the nurses’ quarters of the state hospital under less threatening conditions. Cukrowicz wishes to try talking therapy to evaluate Catherine. Catherine's mother and brother visit Catherine and reveal that Violet will pay them a large sum of money if they sign papers to commit Catherine to the institution and allow the lobotomy to be performed. Horrified, Catherine flees into the men’s wing, where she is nearly attacked, causing more disruption and “confirmation” of the salacious accusations against her.
Crukowicz convinces Violet to visit Catherine in the hospital.  Violet reveals her resentment at Catherine having supplanted her on Sebastian’s last summer. She blames Catherine for not properly nurturing Sebastian, for his inability to write the single poem he wrote every summer, and for contributing to the “heart attack” that was the “official” cause of death. Catherine asserts to Violet that they were both “bait” to attract young men, hinting that Sebastian was homosexual, and that he asked Catherine to replace his mother when Violet had grown too old to be bait. Violet responds that she will not listen to such “obscenity” and wants Cukrowicz “to cut this hideous story out of her brain.” Violet tells Hockstader that she doesn’t want to move forward with the new hospital wing until the operation has been performed. Catherine now attempts to throw herself off a high balcony but is prevented by a male orderly.
In a last-ditch effort to help Catherine, Cukrowicz takes her to the Venable estate where he administers a drug to overcome any resistance to remembering what happened that summer. Catherine recalls how she and Sebastian spent their days on the beach on the island of Cabeza de Lobo 