Supergirl is an American superhero drama television series developed by Ali Adler, Greg Berlanti and Andrew Kreisberg that aired on CBS and later The CW from October 26, 2015, to November 9, 2021. It is based on the DC Comics character of the same name created by Otto Binder and Al Plastino. The series features Melissa Benoist in the title role. Supergirl is a costumed superheroine who is Superman's cousin and one of the last surviving Kryptonians from the planet Krypton. Starting with its second season, the show was retroactively established to be set in the Arrowverse, sharing continuity with the other television series of the franchise.
The series was officially picked up on May 6, 2015, after receiving a series commitment in September 2014 and received a full season order on November 30, 2015. Beginning with the second season, the series started to air on The CW. The show has received generally positive reviews from critics, who have praised the creative direction, the performances, and the themes addressed.


== Series overview ==

Kara Zor-El was sent to Earth from Krypton as a thirteen-year-old by her parents Zor-El and Alura. Kara was meant to protect her infant cousin, Kal-El, but her spacecraft was knocked off course and sent into the Phantom Zone, where it stayed for 24 years. By the time the spacecraft crash-landed on Earth, Kal-El had grown up and become Superman. The series begins twelve years later when Kara is learning to embrace her own superhuman powers as a Kryptonian and has adopted the superheroine alias "Supergirl".
In the first season, Kara is forced to reveal her powers, and she becomes National City's protector. In the process, she discovers that hundreds of the criminals her mother imprisoned are hiding on Earth, including her aunt Astra and her husband Non. Kara works with her adoptive sister Alex Danvers to fight these criminals alongside the Green Martian J'onn J'onzz, her cousin's friend James Olsen, and tech genius Winn Schott.
In the second season, Kara and her allies deal with feuds between Earth's native populace and extraterrestrial community and investigate the shadowy organization Project Cadmus, masterminded by Lillian Luthor, mother of Lex Luthor. Meanwhile, Kara befriends Lillian's adoptive daughter, Lena Luthor, the new CEO of LuthorCorp, and struggles with romantic feelings for recent Earth arrival Mon-El, a princely survivor from Krypton's neighboring planet Daxam, whose parents wish to reclaim him. James becomes the masked vigilante Guardian; Alex begins dating Maggie Sawyer; and J'onn befriends a younger Martian, M'gann, from the White Martian race that killed his people.
In the third season, Kara struggles with the loss of Mon-El after he is forced to leave Earth. When Mon-El returns, he reveals that he has time-traveled to the 31st century and founded the Legion, as well as married Imra Ardeen. J'onn discovers his father M'yrnn J'onzz is alive, and Alex deals with her heartbreak after breaking up with Maggie. Kara and Alex's new friend, Samantha Arias, discovers she is also a Kryptonian survivor and begins a transformation from a loving single mother into the world-killing weapon known as Reign.
In the fourth season, Kara deals with a new wave of anti-extraterrestrial prejudice secretly instigated by Lex Luthor from prison, forcing her to fight for the civil and political rights of aliens. Ben Lockwood, a former college professor who suffered a series of personal tragedies at the hands of aliens, forms a human-first group called the Children of Liberty to end all aliens. Meanwhile, in the nation of Kasnia, a clone of Kara dubbed "Red Daughter" is trained by its military to fight Supergirl at Lex's request. Kara and Alex clash with the DEO's new addition, Col. Lauren Haley, who was sent to monitor the DEO's progress under Alex's direction. Col. Haley and the president try to force Supergirl to reveal her identity, causing the feud to escalate when she refuses.
In the fifth season, 