Swamp Thing is an American superhero television series created by Gary Dauberman and Mark Verheiden for DC Universe, based on the DC Comics character of the same name. The series follows medical doctor Abby Arcane (Crystal Reed) encountering the eponymous Swamp Thing (Derek Mears), a plant-elemental creature who fights malevolent forces around a Louisiana swamp.
The series premiered on May 31, 2019, and consisted of 10 episodes. Shortly after its premiere, DC Universe announced that Swamp Thing had been canceled. The remaining episodes were released on DC Universe until the series' conclusion on August 2, 2019. The series received positive reviews from critics, particularly for the series' horror elements and practical monster effects.


== Premise ==
Abby Arcane returns home to Marais, Louisiana, to investigate a deadly swamp-borne virus, where she develops a bond with disgraced scientist Alec Holland. After Holland tragically dies, Abby discovers the mysteries of the swamp and that Holland might not be dead after all.


== Cast and characters ==


=== Main ===
Crystal Reed as Abigail "Abby" Arcane: A CDC doctor investigating a horrific life-threatening epidemic in her hometown while facing her past again. Melissa Collazo portrays teenage Abby.
Virginia Madsen as Maria Sunderland: The wife of Avery Sunderland, whose grief over the loss of her daughter, Shawna, resurfaces when Abby returns home, and draws Maria into the supernatural mysteries of the swamp.
Andy Bean as Alec Holland: A disgraced biologist working for Avery. Murdered when he starts to uncover an illegal operation in the swamp, his memories survive inside of Swamp Thing.
Derek Mears as Swamp Thing: A plant-based entity created from the memories of Alec Holland. Possessing elemental control of vegetation and regenerative abilities, he attempts to defend the swamp, the town, and the natural world at large.
Henderson Wade as Matt Cable: A police officer along with his mother, Lucilia, who finds himself in dire straits when supernatural events begin to threaten the town. He is also a childhood friend of Abby.
Maria Sten as Liz Tremayne: A local newspaper reporter and bartender who is a close childhood friend of Abby Arcane.
Jeryl Prescott as Nimue Inwudu / Xanadu: A blind fortune teller whose psychic abilities can reveal the future.
Will Patton as Avery Sunderland: A prominent businessman in Marais, who, while publicly giving back to the community, is determined to harness the power of the swamp for profit as a pharmaceutical cornucopia. He was also the adoptive parent to Abby Arcane after her mother died.
Jennifer Beals as Lucilia Cable: The "tough as nails and pragmatic" sheriff of Marais with a strong devotion to her son, Matt.
Kevin Durand as Jason Woodrue: A biogeneticist, brought in to study the properties of the swamp, leading him to become fixated on unlocking its potential.


=== Recurring ===
Leonardo Nam as Harlan Edwards: A CDC specialist who is Abby's second-in-command
Elle Graham as Susie Coyle: A young girl who is diagnosed with "Green Flu", appears to have a mysterious connection to Swamp Thing, and befriends Abby
Given Sharp as Shawna Sunderland: Abby's childhood friend and Maria and Avery's deceased daughter, who appears in both flashbacks and as a ghost to her mother Maria
Ian Ziering as Daniel Cassidy / Blue Devil: A former stuntman who, after becoming semi-famous playing the demonic Blue Devil in a film, looks to regain his former fame
Selena Anduze as Caroline Woodrue: A scientist and Jason Woodrue's wife who has Alzheimer's disease
Macon Blair as Phantom Stranger
Al Mitchell as Delroy Tremayne: Liz's father
Michael Beach as Nathan Ellery


=== Guest ===
RJ Cyler as Jones
Tim Russ as Dr. Chowodury, a doctor at the Marais hospital
Micah Fitzgerald as Munson / the Rot
Adrienne Barbeau as Dr. Palomar, the assistant director of the CDC. Barbeau previously appeared in the 1982 film adaptation of Swamp Thing as Alice Cable, an amalgamation of Abby Arc