"Sweet Nothing" is a song by the American singer-songwriter Taylor Swift from her tenth studio album, Midnights (2022). Swift wrote the song with Joe Alwyn, who is credited under the pseudonym William Bowery, and produced it with Jack Antonoff. An electric piano-led ballad, "Sweet Nothing" features a bedroom pop production that is reminiscent of 1970s ballads. It is accompanied by saxophone and clarinet accents. The lyrics are about a narrator's appreciation of her lover for his calming presence and simple gestures amidst the chaos of the outer world.
In reviews of Midnights, music critics praised the intimate lyrics, vulnerable sentiments, and tender production of "Sweet Nothing"; some picked it as one of the album's best tracks. Esquire ranked it among the best songs of 2022. Commercially, "Sweet Nothing" peaked at number 14 on the Billboard Global 200 and in the top 40 on single charts in Australia, Canada, the Philippines, Portugal, Singapore, the United States, and Vietnam.


== Background and release ==

At the 2022 MTV Video Music Awards held on August 28, the singer-songwriter Taylor Swift announced her tenth studio album, set for release on October 21, during her acceptance speech for Video of the Year. Soon after, she revealed the title, Midnights, and its album cover on her social media, but did not immediately reveal the tracklist. On September 21, a month before Midnights was released, she announced a thirteen-episode short series called Midnights Mayhem With Me, slated for release on the social media platform TikTok. Its purpose is to announce a song title through a telephone every episode by rolling a lottery cage containing thirteen ping pong balls numbered one to thirteen, each ball representing a track. In the twelfth episode, she revealed "Sweet Nothing" as the twelfth track of the album. 
Midnights was released by Republic Records, and "Sweet Nothing" appears as track number 12. The English actor Joe Alwyn wrote and produced songs under the pseudonym William Bowery with Swift on her 2020 studio albums, Folklore and Evermore. He again wrote with Swift and is credited under the same pseudonym as co-writer on "Sweet Nothing". Jack Antonoff, a longtime collaborator who produced Swift's albums since her fifth, 1989 (2014), was confirmed as a producer on Midnights by a video posted to Swift's Instagram account on September 16, titled "The making of Midnights". The "Piano remix" of the song is included on the CD Deluxe edition of Midnights titled Lavender Edition. "Sweet Nothing" had its live performance debut on August 24, 2023, at the first international show of the Eras Tour in Mexico City.


== Composition and lyrics ==
"Sweet Nothing" is three minutes and eight seconds long. Swift wrote the song with Alwyn (credited as William Bowery) and produced it with Antonoff, who also engineered and programmed it. On "Sweet Nothing", Antonoff is credited with instruments including drums, piano, and synthesizers (Moog, Juno 6, Prophet 5), and Evan Smith is credited with organ, saxophone, flute, and clarinet. "Sweet Nothing" was recorded by Antonoff and engineer Laura Sisk at Rough Customer Studio, Brooklyn and Electric Lady Studios, New York, and Smith recorded Swift's performance at Pleasure Hill Recording, Portland. The track was mixed by Serban Ghenea, assisted by Bryce Bordone, at Sterling Sound, Edgewater, and mastered by Randy Merrill at MixStar Studios, Virginia Beach.
"Sweet Nothing" is a tender ballad that is reminiscent of 1970s songs. Its acoustic arrangement sets it apart from a synth-heavy album. The song is driven by an electric piano and features accents of saxophone and clarinet that crescendo towards the end. Giselle Au-Nhien Nguyen said the song had a bedroom pop "aesthetic".
The title references the expression "sweet nothings", which denotes insubstantial romantic gestures only meant to flatter or seduce. In the lyrics, a narrator appreciates her lover for not expecting anything from her and describes 