Sex clubs, also known as swinger clubs or lifestyle clubs, are formal or informal groups that organize sex-related activities, or establishments where patrons can engage in sex acts with other patrons. A sex club or swinger club differs from a brothel in that while sex club patrons pay an entrance fee and may pay an annual membership fee, they only have an opportunity to have sex with other patrons, not with sex workers.


== Genres ==

A similar type of club is a masturbation club in which members, either single-gender or mixed, masturbate together in public or private rooms. Sexual intercourse is generally prohibited in such clubs.
There is also a very large and growing group of private sex clubs that, to avoid legal problems, do not operate in a specified location. These organizations focus on private parties in homes or rented facilities and make use of the Internet to build their membership. There is usually a small door fee and most are invitation-only. In addition to sexual orientation, these smaller groups often stratify on specific criteria, e.g., men with beards or those who are interested in BDSM and kinks. The first sex club of this type exclusively for African American gay men was Black Jack, started in 1986 by Alan Bell.
Many sex clubs have some form of online presence. Additionally, most adult dating and swinger social networks often provide listings of sex clubs, resorts and events. There is no non-profit impartial overarching organization of sex clubs per se, although NASCA International serves as an umbrella organization for swinging groups in general.


== Organizations ==

Most sex clubs cater to the swinging lifestyle. Most major cities in North America and Western Europe have sex clubs, many in a permanent location, but they often keep a low profile. Thousands of swinging clubs are listed on various adult websites and swinger social networks, but there are believed to be many other small neighborhood clubs, which are known among members of the lifestyle community, without a website. The rules of these clubs vary considerably, and admissions are not necessarily limited to married couples.
Most clubs are upscale and professional places that provide a safe place to meet other swingers.  There are some differences however among clubs, and one should not confuse swinger clubs with social clubs, swinger groups or Meet-and-Greets.  The easiest and simplest way to know the difference between swinger clubs and socials, groups or Meet-n-Greets is that swinger clubs are usually bricks-and-mortar physical locations where people meet other swingers.  Socials, groups, and Meet-and-Greets may often meet in the same location, but it is often either a residence or some space that they have secured to meet. However, swinger clubs are typically permanent places that are specifically established for catering to swingers.
One of the biggest differences among clubs is the distinction between "On-Premises" and "Off-Premises" swinger clubs. On-Premises swingers lifestyle clubs are ones that offer rooms or areas that permit couples to engage in sex either alone or with others.  Off-Premises clubs are ones that allow for couples to meet and often dance or can socialize, but have no areas or rooms where any sexual activity can occur.  Larger establishments may include the facilities of an ordinary nightclub such as a bar and a dance floor. Each club sets the rules for activities which take place at club organized events. Some clubs organize events which cater to heterosexual couples or individuals, others to gay men or (rarely) lesbians, and others have no orientation policy. Some cater to non-conventional activities, such as gang bangs, BDSM or fetish.

Many swinger clubs will have a dozen or more rooms for sexual activity. The lifestyle clubs are also often decorated in themes, with furniture to match.  Rooms may be decorated like a tropical oasis to Arabian Nights to caves to rooms with mirrors everywhere.  Most clubs will also 