Take the Money and Run is a 1969 American mockumentary crime comedy film directed by Woody Allen. Allen co-wrote the screenplay with Mickey Rose and stars alongside Janet Margolin. The film chronicles the life of Virgil Starkwell, an inept bank robber.
Filmed in San Francisco and San Quentin State Prison, Take the Money and Run received Golden Laurel nominations for Male Comedy Performance (Woody Allen) and Male New Face (Woody Allen), and a Writers Guild of America Award nomination for Best Comedy Written Directly for the Screen (Woody Allen, Mickey Rose).


== Plot ==
Virgil Starkwell's story parodies prison documentary style, using "archival footage" and "interviews" with people who knew him. Virgil’s parents are so ashamed that they wear Groucho glasses during their interviews to hide their identity. As a child, Virgil is a frequent target of bullies, who take his glasses and stamp on them on the floor. In school, he scores well on an IQ test, but his teacher relates that when he stole a fountain pen, she instructed the class to close their eyes so the thief could return it. While all eyes were closed, Virgil returned the pen, but “felt up” all the girls.  
As an adult, Virgil is clumsy and socially awkward. Stealing a gun to rob an armored truck, during a shootout with the guards, he finds that his gun is a cigarette lighter. Arrested, Virgil attempts an escape from prison using a bar of soap carved to resemble a gun, but his "gun" dissolves in the rain. 
Out on parole, Virgil’s attempt to rob a local pet shop fails when a gorilla chases him away. In the park, he meets Louise; Virgil recounts that after 15 minutes he knew he was in love and wanted to marry her, after 30 minutes he gave up the idea of snatching her purse. Virgil steals coins from a gumball machine (parody of Cool Hand Luke), paying  for dinner with nickels.
Virgil’s attempt to rob a bank is stymied by an argument about his handwriting on a demand note. The cashier asks what “I am pointing a ‘gub’ at you” means, and Virgil insists it says “gun”; the cashier”s supervisor asks what “Abt naturally” means. Virgil insists it’s “act naturally.” While over a dozen bank employees attempt to decipher the note, the police arrive. Virgil is sentenced to 10 years in maximum security. He asks Louise to bake him a cake with a gun in it and a dozen chocolate cookies with a bullet in each (she does not). Virgil joins a mass breakout plan, but the guards become suspicious when all their uniforms are missing from the laundry. The breakout is called off, and Virgil is the only inmate not informed, but manages to escape anyway. 
Virgil marries Louise, but finds it difficult to support his family. Lying about his background, he is hired in the mailroom. In a parody of I Am a Fugitive from a Chain Gang, he is blackmailed by a fellow employee, Miss Blair, who forces him into a romantic relationship. Deciding to kill his blackmailer, he disguises sticks of dynamite as candles. He attempts to run her over with his car, but she evades it. He attempts to stab her with a knife, but grabs a turkey leg by mistake and stabs her with it. She finally lights the "candles" that explode. 
Another bank robbery is botched when a second gang also holds up the bank, and the customers vote that they prefer the other gang to rob the bank. Virgil is sentenced to 10 years on a chain gang, where he is tortured in a penalty box with an insurance salesman. In a parody of I Am a Fugitive from a Chain Gang,  Virgil asks another prisoner whether his aim is good enough to smash his chain with a sledgehammer; his aim misses and Virgil’s foot is hit instead. In a parody of The Defiant Ones, Virgil and 5 other prisoners—including two black prisoners—all chained together make a break for it while on work detail.  Attempting to scatter, they don’t get very far. They take an old woman hostage, telling her to pretend to the police that they are her cousins and attempting to hide their chains by standing close toge