Tales from the Hood is a 1995 American black horror anthology film directed by Rusty Cundieff. The film presents four short urban-themed horror stories based on problems that affect the African-American community: police corruption, domestic abuse, racism, and gang violence. These are presented within a frame story of three drug dealers buying some "found" drugs from an eccentric and story-prone funeral director.


== Plot ==


=== "Welcome to My Mortuary" (prologue) ===
A trio of drug dealers – Stack, Ball, and Bulldog – arrive at Simms' Funeral Home to purchase some drugs from Mr. Simms, the mortuary's eccentric owner.
Mr. Simms claims that he found the drugs in an alley, and has safely stored them in his mortuary. He asks the dealers to help him get the drugs, and as the four make their way through the building, relates stories about some of the dead bodies in the funeral home. The first casket contains the body of Clarence Smith, a man who was rumored to have heard voices of the dead calling his name.


=== "Rogue Cop Revelation" ===
During his first night on the job, young black police officer Clarence Smith is taken by his new white partner, Newton Hauser, to the scene of what initially appears to be a routine traffic stop of a well-dressed black man by two white cops. When Smith runs the car's license plates, he learns that the man is in fact Martin Ezekiel Moorehouse, a city councilman and black rights activist who has recently been on a crusade to eliminate police corruption in the city. Smith watches in horror as Hauser, along with fellow officers, Billy Crumfield and Strom Richmond, brutally beat Moorehouse with their nightsticks and vandalize his car. When Smith insists that Moorehouse should be taken to a hospital, the officers appear to agree. Smith tells Hauser that Crumfield and Richmond should be reported for what they did, but Hauser tells Smith that officers are not to break "the code" and rat each other out. Smith and Hauser leave in their car. Richmond and Crumfield don't take Moorehouse to the hospital. Instead, they drive Moorehouse's car to the docks. Richmond shoots the battered Moorehouse up with some of the heroin that he, Hauser, and Crumfield have been dealing, plants some in his car, then pushes it into the water with Moorehouse still inside. Moorehouse is posthumously and falsely labeled a hypocrite.
One year later, Smith has left the police force and is now a guilt-consumed drunk. On a walk in his neighborhood, he sees a mural of Moorehouse. Smith then has a vision of a crucified Moorehouse haunting him with the words "Bring them to me!" In response, Smith convinces the three police officers to meet him at Moorehouse's grave on the anniversary of the murder. Once there, Smith denounces the officers for killing Moorehouse and destroying his reputation. The officers begin to insult Moorehouse, with Richmond urinating on Moorehouse's grave and then ordering Crumfield to do the same thing. As Hauser and Richmond prepare to kill Smith, a zombified Moorehouse bursts from the grave to drag Crumfield beneath the ground by his genitals. Moorehouse's coffin bursts from the ground, opening to reveal Crumfield's mutilated corpse, with Moorehouse standing above the grave, clutching Crumfield's still-beating heart.
Richmond and Hauser open fire on Moorehouse, but the bullets have no effect, prompting them to flee in horror. A lengthy chase ensues, with the two cops fleeing by patrol car. As Hauser is driving the vehicle, Moorehouse jumps on top of the vehicle and decapitates Richmond with his bare hands. Terrified, Hauser exits his vehicle and shoots its gas tank, though the ensuing explosion doesn't rid him of Moorehouse. Moorehouse then chases Hauser into an alley, where he telekinetically throws used hypodermic needles into the cop's body, pinning him to Moorehouse's wall mural. Hauser's body melts into the mural, becoming a painting of himself crucified.
His vengeance nearly complete, Moorehouse accosts S