Donal Francis Logue (born February 27, 1966) is a Canadian actor. He starred in the film The Tao of Steve and has had roles in the TV series Sons of Anarchy, Vikings, Grounded for Life, Copper, Terriers, and, as Detective Harvey Bullock on Fox's Gotham. He additionally played the recurring role of Lt. (later Captain) Declan Murphy in NBC's Law & Order: Special Victims Unit.


== Early life ==
Donal Francis Logue was born in Ottawa, Ontario, to Irish parents from County Kerry. His parents were Carmelite missionaries, and the family moved from Ireland to Canada to Boston and elsewhere before settling in Calexico, California, in the state's Imperial Valley. There and in nearby El Centro, California, Logue grew up with three sisters—Karina, Deirdre and Eileen—and their mother taught at Calexico High School and Vincent Memorial Catholic High School. Logue attended Central Union High School in El Centro, where he became interested in theater. With friend John Everly during what Logue called the "summer during our sophomore year", he created the theater group Imperial Valley Players to perform in the school's auditorium, mounting the theater of the absurd play Picnic on the Battlefield by Fernando Arrabal.
For part of his junior year of high school, Logue attended the Jesuit school St. Ignatius' College in Enfield Town, London, England. In 1983, while a high-school senior, Donal was elected president of the 37th session of the American Legion Boys Nation, representing California and becoming the first non-citizen elected Boys Nation president. He went on to study history at Harvard University, graduating in 1988. In the late 1980s, he worked as a road manager for such bands as Bullet LaVolta.


== Career ==
After a few appearances in made-for-TV films, Logue appeared in the 1992 film Sneakers, playing Dr. Gunter Janek. Of his career start, Logue recalled,

After being accepted to Harvard as an intellectual history major and being convinced to audition for plays by my college roommates, I auditioned for 15 and didn't get called back for a single one. I had been a road manager for punk bands and a stage manager for a traveling theater company, but nothing had materialized. Out of the blue, though, I got a call to audition for the movie Sneakers out in L.A. and I had very little experience. When I was there, auditioning for the role in front of Ben Kingsley and Robert Redford and getting nods of approval, it provided validation to my efforts. That was my first big movie, and I knew that my life would not be dictated by normality.
In 1993, he portrayed Capt. Ellis Spear in Gettysburg, and a movie agent, Judd Bromell, on the Northern Exposure episode "Baby Blues", then later appeared as an FBI agent in The X-Files episode "Squeeze." Logue's character Jimmy The Cab Driver was a staple of MTV promos in the early 1990s. He also appeared in Blade and The Patriot, in 2000. He appeared in two of Edward Burns films: Purple Violets and The Groomsmen.
Logue's portrayal as the lead in The Tao of Steve won him a Special Grand Jury Prize for best actor at the 2000 Sundance Film Festival, and was noticed by ER producer John Wells, who cast Logue in several episodes as Chuck Martin, a nurse Dr. Susan Lewis marries one weekend in Las Vegas on a whim, and later has a child with. Concurrent with the run on ER, Logue starred in the critically acclaimed comedy Grounded for Life. In December 2005, Logue had a pilot development deal for a new situation comedy on ABC television, originally titled I Want to Rob Mick Jagger. The pilot was picked up and debuted in the winter of 2006 under the name The Knights of Prosperity. The show disappeared from the ABC lineup in early March 2007.
Logue also appeared in a supporting role in Just Like Heaven (2005). Logue had appeared as Phil Stubbs in the original pilot for the NBC show Ed, but dropped out to star in the sitcom Grounded for Life. The first two and a half seasons of Grounded for Life were telecast on the Fox n