Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles is a 1990 American superhero action comedy film based on the comic book characters created by Kevin Eastman and Peter Laird. It is the first film adaptation of the characters and was directed by Steve Barron and written by Todd W. Langen and Bobby Herbeck from a story by Herbeck. It stars Judith Hoag and Elias Koteas with the voices of Brian Tochi, Josh Pais, Corey Feldman, and Robbie Rist. Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles follows the Turtles on a quest to save their master, Splinter, with their new allies, April O'Neil and Casey Jones, from the Shredder and his Foot Clan.
The film adapts the early Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles comics, with several elements taken from the animated series airing at the time. The turtle costumes were developed by Jim Henson's Creature Shop, one of Jim Henson's last projects before his death shortly after the premiere. Filming took place in 1989 in North Carolina and New York City.
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles was released theatrically in the United States on March 30, 1990, by New Line Cinema. It received mixed reviews, but was a box-office success, grossing $202 million on a budget of $13.5 million; it was the highest-grossing independent film up to that time and the ninth highest-grossing film worldwide of 1990. It was followed by Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II: The Secret of the Ooze (1991) and Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III (1993). It is the only film in the original trilogy not to be distributed by 20th Century Fox internationally.


== Plot ==
In New York City, television reporter April O'Neil reports on a silent crime wave enveloping the city. That night, April is attacked by a group of thieves, and is saved by an unseen group of vigilantes. April's rescuers, the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles—Leonardo, Donatello, Michelangelo, and Raphael—return to their hidden lair in the sewer, where their master and adoptive father, a rat named Splinter, advises them to continue practicing the art of ninjutsu. Raph visits the surface and ends up in a fight with the brutal vigilante Casey Jones, who escapes.
April investigates the crime wave, correctly theorizing it to be the work of the ninja Foot Clan, whose leader, The Shredder, orders her to be silenced. The Foot clansmen attack April in the subway. Raph defeats them and carries the unconscious April back to the turtles' lair, unaware that a Foot soldier is following. Once April awakens, Splinter introduces himself and the turtles, explaining that they were once normal animals, before being mutated into intelligent, anthropomorphic creatures by a mysterious chemical and trained by Splinter in ninjutsu. After the turtles escort April home, they find their lair ransacked and Splinter kidnapped. They return to April's apartment and spend the night there.
April's supervisor, Charles Pennington, visits April's apartment with his delinquent son, Danny. Danny glimpses the turtles hiding, and later runs away following an argument with his father. At the Foot's hideout, Shredder informs his followers of the turtles' threat, and Danny reports his findings.
Raph argues with Leo over his leadership, and retreats to the roof. The Foot arrive and lay siege, beating Raph unconscious. The apartment catches fire, and the turtles and April escape with help from Casey. Guilt-stricken, Danny seeks counsel from the imprisoned Splinter, and runs away from the Foot Clan. The turtles retreat to an abandoned farm belonging to April's family, where Raph recovers and April and Casey bond. Leo receives a vision of Splinter, and assembles the other turtles to contact him through astral projection. Splinter delivers his final lesson, inspiring the turtles to return to the city.
The turtles find Danny hiding in their lair. While the turtles are sleeping, Danny returns to the Foot’s hideout and meets with Splinter, followed by Casey. Splinter tells Danny the story of how, when he was still an ordinary rat, he learned ninjutsu from his former master, the n