Tetsuo: The Iron Man (鉄男, Tetsuo, 'iron man') is a 1989 Japanese science fiction horror film directed, written, produced, and edited by Shinya Tsukamoto.  The film centers around an unnamed Japanese salaryman who wakes up to find pieces of metal sprouting from various parts of his body and becomes haunted by visions of metal-oriented sexual fantasies. As the man steadily becomes a hybrid of man and machine, he develops a connection with a victim from a hit-and-run accident, who is undergoing a similar transformation.
The film was the first feature-length film by Tsukamoto after he spent his youth creating film shorts and entering Japanese experimental theatre. Through his theatre work, he met like-minded people to perform in plays and later short films such as Kei Fujiwara and Taguchi. Filming proved to be difficult with much of the cast and crew abandoning the production with only Taguchi and Tsukamoto arriving on set to finish the film. After winning the Grand Prize at the Fantafestival in Italy, the film grew in popularity in Japan, becoming a top seller on home video for non-mainstream cinema.
Outside Japan, critics compared the film to the work of directors Sam Raimi, David Cronenberg, and David Lynch while still finding the film to be an original film that was difficult to parse. Tsukamoto directed a sequel titled Tetsuo II: Body Hammer. In 2012, Michael Brooke of Sight & Sound declared the film "remains one of the most pulverisingly effective sci-fi horror films of the past quarter of a century." In Japan, the film magazine Kinema Junpo included the film on their list of top 200 Japanese films in 2009.


== Plot ==
Note: Tetsuo: The Iron Man does not have a conventional narrative. This plot synopsis is adapted from a home video release and a synopsis in Sight & Sound by Tony Rayns using notes from the director.
After a young man inserts scrap metal into a self-inflicted wound on his thigh, he becomes a victim in a hit-and-run accident. The driver, a typical salaryman, later finds a metallic thorn protruding from his cheek while shaving. On his way out to a subway station, he is attacked and chased by a woman who sprouts metallic tentacles. The man later finds metallic scabs on his own skin.
At home, the man sleeps next to his girlfriend and has a dream in which he is sodomized by organic metal machinery. Waking up, he either imagines or discovers that metal is taking over his body. When he attempts to have sex with his girlfriend, his penis becomes a metallic drill which leads him to lock himself away from his girlfriend. She approaches him saying she is not afraid of him, but as they have sex with his transformed penis, she stabs him in the neck. Falling into unconsciousness, the man regains consciousness sometime later to find his girlfriend has impaled herself on the drill, killing her.
Meanwhile, the victim of the hit-and-run accident recalls memories in the form of videos looping, recalling the moment of the accident and a doctor who tells him they discovered metal in his brain. The hit-and-run victim realizes he has telepathic powers and reaches out to the man and his girlfriend initially to menace them, but then to promise the man a "new world of metal".
The man flees in a panic as a local tramp meets the car accident victim and starts beating him. The man and the victim eventually meet again finding their entire body more metal than flesh. The victim's tone changes from anger to love and says he needs to merge with the man as he is overcome with rust that is attacking his body. The two merge into a giant metallic monster, and take to the streets of the city convinced they can mutate the entire world into metal.


== Cast ==
Tomorowo Taguchi as the Salaryman
Kei Fujiwara as the Salaryman's girlfriend
Nobu Kanaoka as a Woman in glasses
Shinya Tsukamoto as the Young Metal Fetishist
Naomasa Musaka as a Doctor
Renji Ishibashi as Tramp
Cast adapted from the Sight & Sound review.


== Production ==


=== Background and