That Thing You Do! is a 1996 American musical comedy-drama film written and directed by Tom Hanks, in his feature writing and directorial debut.
The film is set in 1960s rock and roll culture. It tells the story of the rise and fall of a fictional one-hit wonder pop band, and stars Tom Everett Scott, Liv Tyler, Johnathon Schaech, Steve Zahn, Ethan Embry, and Hanks. Its production and music are key to its narrative, with original scores by a collaboration of artists including Hanks, Adam Schlesinger, and Howard Shore. The soundtrack peaked at #21 on the Billboard 200 albums chart, featuring a mix of diegetic and non-diegetic tracks. The cast practiced for weeks to perform convincingly on camera, blurring the lines between reality and fiction.
The film was well-received, critically and at the box office. It has an approval rating of 94% on Rotten Tomatoes and received several accolades. The film resulted in a musical hit with the titular song of the same title, which was nominated for an Academy Award and a Golden Globe Award for Best Original Song.


== Plot ==
In 1964, Guy Patterson, an aspiring jazz drummer, is working in his family's appliance store in Erie, Pennsylvania, when he is asked by friends Jimmy and Lenny to perform a song Jimmy wrote at a talent show with their band to cover for their regular drummer Chad, who broke his arm.  Prior to the talent show, they rehearse the song, a slow-tempo ballad called "That Thing You Do!", in Jimmy's garage.  Needing a name for the band, Jimmy's girlfriend Faye proposes "The Oneders", a play on the Beatles.  
At the talent show, Guy launches the song, but at a much faster tempo than what they did in the garage.  Despite Jimmy telling Guy to slow down, he and Lenny adapt and they win the competition, much to Jimmy's chagrin.  
They win a paying gig at Villapiano's, a local pizza parlor. When a fan asks for a record, they decide to record the song and sell 45s of it, through the help of Guy's Uncle Bob. Local talent promoter Phil Horace notices the band, promising to get them on the radio within ten days. Lenny convinces the band to sign with him.
Phil gets the song played on Pennsylvania radio, and books them at a rock & roll showcase concert in Pittsburgh. Because of technical difficulties, and their lack of stagecraft, they are booed off the stage. Afterward, Phil brings a dispirited Guy to meet with Mr. White, an A&R representative for Play-Tone Records, who offers the band a contract and becomes their manager. He renames the band "the Wonders" (as many people had mispronounced "Oneders" as "Oh-nee-ders"), offers them advice on style and presentation (including insisting that the group all wear matching suits and Guy always wear sunglasses), asks them to join the Play-Tone tour of Midwestern state fairs, and suggests Jimmy's girlfriend Faye join the tour maintaining their wardrobe.
During the tour, the Wonders meet other acts, learn about the business, and become better performers. Jimmy spends time with a singer, Diane, while the bassist, T.B., falls for a member of a girl group, the Chantrellines. "That Thing You Do!" garners national radio airplay and the band's popularity soars. Jimmy is itching to return to the studio.
When "That Thing You Do!" reaches number 7 on the Billboard charts, Mr. White sends them to Los Angeles to do publicity, including radio and film appearances. On the day of their appearance on The Hollywood Television Showcase, a nationally televised live variety show, T.B., the bassist, is nowhere to be found, so Mr. White replaces him with Scott Pell, an older, experienced session bassist known as "Wolfman". Guy is hungover after meeting his idol, jazz pianist Del Paxton; Jimmy is vomiting due to nerves; Lenny is preoccupied with his new girlfriend. Still, the Wonders manage to cooperate for a successful television appearance. When television captions display the members of the band, Jimmy's caption reads "Careful, girls, he's engaged!" Jimmy sees this on a