The Suffering: Ties That Bind is a 2005 first and third-person shooter horror video game developed by Surreal Software and published by Midway Games for PlayStation 2, Xbox and Microsoft Windows. The game was released in North America in September and in Europe in October. It is a sequel to the 2004 game The Suffering. In 2017, it was released on GOG.com.
The game continues the story of Torque, a man sentenced to death for murdering his ex-wife and two children. In the original game, after arriving on death row in Abbot State Penitentiary on Carnate Island, off the coast of Maryland, an earthquake rocks the island, and the prison is attacked by strange supernatural creatures. During the mayhem, Torque escapes. Ties That Bind continues his story, as he flees the island and heads back to his home town of Baltimore, where Torque must once again battle the creatures from Carnate, now terrorizing Baltimore, while facing his past misdeeds and confronting his nemesis, a mysterious criminal kingpin known as Blackmore, who is connected to Torque's past and his family's deaths. Players who have a saved game from The Suffering can choose one of three different openings, based upon the ending they received in the first game. As with the original game, Ties That Bind also features three different endings, depending on the players' actions throughout the game.
Ties That Bind received favorable reviews, but was generally criticized as being too similar to the original game. Some critics felt the game would only appeal to fans of the first game, while others argued the more complex storyline and serious moral issues made it worthwhile on its own merits. Despite mostly positive reception, the game saw underwhelming sales. For a time Surreal Software initially spoke about the possibility of expanding The Suffering franchise into a multi-game series, however Ties That Bind remains the final installment to the series.


== Gameplay ==
Ties That Bind is a first and third-person shooter psychological horror game in which the player controls Torque, the player character, from either a first-person or third-person perspective, depending on their preference. The game is fully playable in both first and third-person views, with all actions available in both modes. Torque can run, shoot, jump, crouch, roll, interact with the environment, interact with NPCs, and use items, such as flashlights, flash grenades, shrapnel grenades, and molotov cocktails. Weaponry includes knives, axes, baseball bats, steel pipes, Colt 1911s, .357 revolvers, 12 gauge pumps, sawed-off shotguns, Škorpions, M3A1s, tommy guns, M60s, grenade launchers, and RPG-7s. Other items which can be found during the game are Xombium tablets (which restore the player's health), paperwork with story content, maps, ammo, and flashlight batteries.
Two major gameplay alterations in Ties That Bind concern pickups. Firstly, Torque can no longer stockpile Xombium bottles, allowing the player to refill their health whenever they wish. Instead, Torque must rely on stationary Xombium located at set points throughout the game. Secondly, the player is limited to carrying only two weapons at any given time, although is free to choose which two; the play may carry two melee weapons, two guns, or one of each. Also, whereas in the first game, Torque could only dual-wield the handgun, in Ties That Bind, he can dual-wield any one handed weapon, including the sawed-off shotgun. Guns can also be used to inflict minor melee damage.
Whereas in the first game, each enemy represented either a form of execution or an historical event on Carnate Island, in Ties That Bind, the enemies, collectively referred to as "Malefactors," represent facets of both modern life and past violence on the crime-ridden streets of Baltimore. Slayers represent knife crime, Gorgers represent a Baltimore urban legend told to children during the food shortages of the Great Depression to explain why there was no food, Arsonists represent vaca