The Tigger Movie is a 2000 American animated musical comedy-drama film produced by Walt Disney Television Animation with animation production by Walt Disney Animation (Japan), Inc., written and directed by Jun Falkenstein from a story by Eddie Guzelian, and released by Walt Disney Pictures on February 11, 2000. It is the second theatrical Winnie the Pooh film after The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh and features Pooh's sidekick Tigger as the main protagonist searching for his family tree and other Tiggers like himself. The film was the first feature-length theatrical Pooh film that was not a collection of previously released shorts.
It is also the first in the original films in which Tigger is voiced entirely by Jim Cummings (in addition to Pooh) following the retirement of Tigger's original voice actor Paul Winchell in 1999. Winchell was originally cast as Tigger but was dropped after the studio considered his voice to be too raspy. Cummings had previously shared the role with Winchell since 1989 and provided his singing voice in most later projects with Winchell as the character's speaking voice.
The film features original songs from the Sherman Brothers. Originally, the film was slated for a direct-to-video release in 2001, until then–Disney CEO Michael Eisner heard the Sherman Brothers' songs and decided to release the film in theaters worldwide a year early. The film received mixed reviews from critics and was the highest-grossing film in the Winnie the Pooh franchise until it was surpassed by 2018's Christopher Robin.
The film received three nominations on the Annie Awards, including the Annie Award for Directing in a Feature Production, the Annie Award for Voice Acting in a Feature Production, and the Annie Award for Music in a Feature Production.


== Plot ==
In the Hundred Acre Wood, Tigger searches for someone to bounce with him, but all of his friends are busy preparing for the upcoming winter. While searching for a playmate, Tigger inadvertently destroys Eeyore's house with a boulder. Tigger attempts to help his friends remove the boulder, but accidentally destroys Rabbit's mechanical pulley system. Frustrated, Rabbit and the rest of Tigger's friends admonish him for his troublesome rambunctious nature, hurting his feelings. Tigger's closest friend Roo, seeing Tigger's sadness and alienation, asks him if he has any family members of his own. Tigger is fascinated by the concept and decides to search for his family, hoping to finally be within a similar company.
Misunderstanding Owl's advice, Tigger and Roo begin searching for his family tree, believing it to be a centuries-old tree covered in stripes and with many Tiggers upon it. After his search fails, Roo suggests that he write a letter to his family, and he does so. He lets the wind carry it away with hopes that it will reach his family but receives no response after days of waiting and begins to lose hope. Tigger's friends sympathetically decide to write him a letter; everyone contributes a bit of friendly advice and signs it "your family". Tigger misinterprets the content of the letter and comes to believe that his family exists and is intending to visit him, with the others unable to tell him the truth. He organizes a large and absurd party in preparation for a family reunion. Roo, wishing to uphold Tigger's spirits, encourages his friends to disguise themselves as Tiggers and attend his party, despite Rabbit's protestations.
After a great effort in disguising themselves and learning to behave like Tiggers, Tigger's friends arrive at his party. He completely falls for the disguises until Roo's mask falls off after an attempt to imitate a complex bounce that Tigger had taught him earlier. Feeling betrayed by his friends' deception, Tigger sets out into a blizzard in search of his real family. He eventually finds an immense tree that the snow has whitened with stripes, convincing him that it is the family tree he had sought, but is saddened when he finds no