A Time to Kill is a 1996 American legal drama film based on John Grisham's 1989 novel of the same name. Sandra Bullock, Samuel L. Jackson, Matthew McConaughey, and Kevin Spacey star with Donald and Kiefer Sutherland appearing in supporting roles and Octavia Spencer in her film debut. The film received mixed reviews but was a commercial success, making $152 million worldwide. It is the second of two films based on Grisham's novels directed by Joel Schumacher, with the other being The Client released two years prior.


== Plot ==
In 1984 Canton, Mississippi, ten-year-old African American girl Tonya Hailey is abducted, raped, and beaten by two local white men, Billy Ray Cobb and James Willard, while on her way home from getting groceries. The duo dump her in a nearby river after a failed attempt to hang her. Tonya survives, and Sheriff Ozzie Walls arrests the two men.
Tonya's father, Carl Lee Hailey, contacts Jake Brigance, a white lawyer who previously defended his brother Lester. Jake admits the possibility that the rapists will walk free. Carl Lee goes to the county courthouse and opens fire with an automatic rifle, killing both rapists and unintentionally wounding Deputy Dwayne Looney, whose leg is later amputated. Carl Lee is arrested, and Jake agrees to defend him.
As the rape and subsequent revenge killing gain national media attention, district attorney Rufus Buckley decides to take the case in hopes of furthering his political career. He seeks the death penalty, and presiding Judge Omar Noose denies Jake a change of venue to a more ethnically diverse county, meaning that Carl Lee will have an all-White jury. Brigance seeks help from his defense team: law student Ellen Roark, close friend Harry Rex Vonner, and former mentor and longtime activist Lucien Wilbanks, a once-great civil rights lawyer. Meanwhile, Billy Ray's brother, Freddie Lee Cobb, plans to avenge Billy's death by joining and enlisting the help of the Mississippi branch of the Ku Klux Klan and its Grand Dragon, Stump Sisson, to ensure Carl Lee's conviction and death sentence by any means necessary.
On the first day of the trial, the Klan takes to the streets and rallies, only to be outnumbered by counter-protesters consisting of the area's minority residents and whites who support Carl Lee's acquittal. The protest erupts into a violent brawl that results in dozens of injuries and the death of Stump Sisson. The Klan also begins to target Jake, assaulting his elderly secretary and her husband, the latter of whom dies of a heart attack brought on by the assault. They also burn a cross on his lawn and threaten his wife and daughter. When Jake refuses to back down, the Klan then increases their attacks, including kidnapping and assaulting Ellen and burning Jake's house down. 
Jake is able to discredit the state's psychiatrist, Dr. Wilbert Rodeheaver. However, Buckley, in turn, discredits Jake's psychiatrist, Dr. Willard Tyrell Bass, by revealing his prior conviction of statutory rape. Dispirited, Jake tells Carl Lee that there is little hope for an acquittal and tries to persuade him to take a plea deal that will imprison him for life but spare him execution. Carl Lee refuses this, replying that he had chosen Jake as an attorney because he is a white man and has insight into how the jury sees Carl Lee. During closing arguments, a deeply-shaken Jake tells the jury to close their eyes and listen as he describes the entire ordeal of Tonya, to which some of the jurors shed tears. In his final comment, Jake asks the jury to imagine how they would feel if she were white.
After deliberation, the jury finds Carl Lee not guilty of all charges, including, evidently, the accidental shooting of Deputy Looney. Jubilation ensues among the supporters while the Klan becomes enraged over their defeat. Meanwhile, Sheriff Walls arrests Freddie Lee for his crimes, as well as a corrupt deputy who is also revealed to be a Klansman.
Sometime later, Jake brings his wife and daughter to a