Les Maîtres du temps (lit. The Masters of Time, a.k.a. Time Masters; Herrscher der Zeit in German; Az idő urai in Hungarian) is a 1982 independent animated science fiction film directed by René Laloux and designed by Mœbius. It is based on the 1958 science fiction novel L'Orphelin de Perdide (The Orphan of Perdide) by Stefan Wul.
The film centres on a boy, Piel, who is stranded on Perdide, a desert planet where giant killer hornets live. He awaits rescue by the space pilot Jaffar, the exiled prince Matton, his sister Belle and Jaffar's old friend Silbad who are trying to reach Perdide and save Piel before it is too late.


== Plot ==
A man named Claude drives a vehicle across the planet Perdide. He sends a message to his friend Jaffar, telling him that his wife Annie was killed by indigenous monster hornets. After a crash wrecks his vehicle and he cannot extricate himself, Claude lets his son Piel down from the wreckage and hands him an interstellar transceiver, telling him that it is named "Mike" and will talk to him, and to do whatever Mike tells him to do. After Claude sends Piel to the Dolongs, a nearby forest which repulses the hornets, the vehicle explodes.
On his spaceship, Jaffar receives Claude's last message. Before heading for Perdide, he decides to seek out his friend Silbad, who has experience in living on Perdide. Jaffar's passengers, Prince Matton and his sister, Princess Belle, have been deposed from their planet; they bring with them a treasure the Prince took along to fund his restoration. Matton hates being diverted.
Jaffar, Silbad, Matton and Belle begin communicating with Piel to give him advice. On Silbad's planet, they witness the metamorphosis of an organism into multiple empathic, sentient homunculi, two of whom, Yula and Jad, stow away on Jaffar's spacecraft seeking adventure. Unbeknownst to everyone, Yula and Jad play with and then dispose of the treasure via the airlock. Matton nearly convinces Piel to drown himself in a lake, but is discovered by Belle. She stuns Matton and talks Piel to safety.
Jaffar plans to use the gravitational pull of the Blue Comet to reach Perdide. In order to rendezvous with it, Jaffar pilots his craft to the planet Gamma 10. Matton escapes in a shuttlecraft to the surface of Gamma 10, which is inhabited by identical angels. They capture both Matton and Jaffar, who followed in a space lifeboat, and intend to throw them into the amorphous being which controls the planet. Although they cannot rescue Jaffar, Yula and Jad forewarn him: As they contact the being, its victims get dominated by it, lose all sense of individuality and become angels. They instruct Jaffar and Matton to resist being assimilated by exuding all the hate and contempt they can muster. Matton leaps into the being and sacrifices himself, destroying the creature and causing the angels to revert to their original forms.
Rescued by Yula and Jad, the former captives are taken onboard Jaffar's ship. Meanwhile, Piel befriends a local creature, a hyponiterix, which accompanies him. A patrol cruiser of the Interplanetary Reform catches up with Jaffar's ship, pursuing the royals and the treasure Matton stole. Jaffar considers that the rescued spacefarers from Gamma 10 should hijack the Reform cruiser and take it for themselves. During the discussion of this plan, one of the rescued from Gamma 10, Onyx the Digeed of Gnaz, is revealed to be able to change his shape to resemble any object. Onyx will impersonate the missing treasure, allowing the escapees to access the Reformist ship.
Jaffar's vessel is boarded, and as he presents the "captured" pirates and the fake treasure to the Reform commander, no one can converse with Piel, who begins to wander without supervision. Jaffar's crew later attempt to contact Piel, who has lost his transceiver and the hyponiterix inside a cave filled with predatory tentacles. Despondent, Piel wanders back to the lakeside, which takes him out of the forest, and is attacked by the hornets