Richard Norton (born 6 January 1950) is an Australian martial artist, actor, stunt performer, stunt coordinator, security consultant, and fight choreographer. He holds a 5th dan black belt in Gōjū-ryū karate, a 6th dan black belt in Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu, an 8th dan black belt in Chun Kuk Do, and a level 6 ranking in American kickboxing. After high school, Norton worked as a bodyguard in the entertainment business before pursuing an acting career. 
Richard appeared as a body guard in the 1977 ABBA movie, as they toured his native country, Australia. He had a very minor speaking part. 
His first movie screen appearance was in the 1980 Chuck Norris film The Octagon, and he has worked on over 80 feature films and television programs. He appeared in a number of martial arts films, facing off against stars such as Jackie Chan, Sammo Hung, Yasuaki Kurata, Benny Urquidez, Don Wilson and Cynthia Rothrock, and has worked as fight choreographer for titles like The Condemned (2007), Mad Max: Fury Road (2015), Suicide Squad (2016), Dark Phoenix (2019) and The Suicide Squad (2021). 
With fellow karateka Bob Jones, Norton is the co-creator of Zen Do Kai, a hybrid self-defense martial art intended for the security industry. He is also the head of Richard Norton BJJ.


== Early life and training ==
Norton was born in the Croydon suburb of Sydney, Australia in 1950. He began studying Judo at the age of 11, and later took up Gōjū-ryū karate, earning his black belt at the age of 17. In 1970, he was hired by Bob Jones as the chief instructor for his Melbourne dojo, which later developed into Zen Do Kai, while also working as a security guard.
He cross-trained in various arts including Brazilian jiu-jitsu (under the Machado brothers), Chun Kuk Do (under Chuck Norris) and Ukidokan kickboxing (under Pete Cunningham and Benny Urquidez), as well as aikido, judo, Muay Thai and kobudo.
He has trained with Tino Ceberano, Tadashi Yamashita, Fumio Demura, Bill 'Superfoot' Wallace, Jean-Jacques Machado and Chuck Norris.


== Career ==
Norton entered the entertainment industry as a personal bodyguard for The Rolling Stones, Linda Ronstadt, James Taylor, David Bowie, ABBA, John Belushi, Fleetwood Mac and Stevie Nicks.
Norton has been on the cover (as well as featured in editorials) of martial arts magazines including Black Belt twice (published since 1987), Australasian Fighting Arts in 1983 (published 1974 to 1998), Blitz Magazine, Impact (published 1992 to 2010) with Cynthia Rothrock in 1993, and with Jackie Chan in 1997, Inside Kung Fu, MA Training (published 1988 to 2000), Martial Arts & Combat Sports (published 1999 to 2002), and Martial Arts & Combat Sports. In 2014 Norton was inducted into the Australasian Martial Arts Hall of Fame. 
He also is the Head Instructor of the Richard Norton Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu organisation.


=== Film ===
Norton is known for his appearances in Hong Kong action films. His Hong Kong credits include The Magic Crystal, Twinkle Twinkle Lucky Stars, City Hunter (a live-action remake of the manga), Millionaire's Express, and Mr. Nice Guy. A signature catchphrase of Norton's characters is "Painful?", usually asked after striking a decisive blow.  The most comical example is in Twinkle, Twinkle Lucky Stars, where he faces Sammo Hung and in the movie Millionaire's Express against Yasuaki Kurata.
Norton became the fight coordinator on Walker, Texas Ranger in 1993. He was a minor (sometimes uncredited) character in several episodes (at least eight), and had a starring role as villainous businessman Frank Scanlon in The Avenging Angel; he was in the two-part finale The Final Show/Down as Jonas Graves, part of Emile Lavocat (Marshall R. Teague)'s criminal gang (he also appears in the "flashback" scenes illustrating the end of the Hayes Cooper legend, as part of Mills "Moon" Lavocat (also Marshall R. Teague)'s desperado gang).
Over his career, Norton has faced off with many top martial arts action stars, including Jackie Chan (in three film