Tough Guys is a 1986 American action comedy film directed by Jeff Kanew and starring Burt Lancaster, Kirk Douglas, Eli Wallach, Charles Durning, Dana Carvey, and Darlanne Fluegel. It is the eighth film of Touchstone Pictures, and the final film to be released from Douglas's Bryna Productions.
Lancaster and Douglas had already made several films together, including I Walk Alone (1948), Gunfight at the O.K. Corral (1957), The Devil's Disciple (1959), The List of Adrian Messenger (1963), and Seven Days in May (1964), becoming something of a team in the public's eye. Douglas was always second-billed under Lancaster but, with the exception of I Walk Alone, in which Douglas played a villain, and The List of Adrian Messenger, in which Lancaster cameoed, their roles were more or less of equal importance. Tough Guys was their final collaboration.
Adolph Caesar, who was originally going to star as Leon B. Little, died of complications from a heart attack on the set of the film and was replaced by Eli Wallach.
This was the first film released under the Touchstone Pictures label after Walt Disney Studios changed the name of the label from Touchstone Films, following the release of Ruthless People (1986).


== Plot ==
Gangsters Harry Doyle and Archie Long are released from prison after having served a 30-year sentence for hijacking the Southern Pacific train the Gold Coast Flyer in 1956. Their parole officer Richie Evans meets them at the gates, offering them a ride to collect their Social Security. Meanwhile Leon B. Little, an elderly hitman with bad eyesight and an outstanding contract on them, immediately tries to kill them but Harry and Archie get away.
At the bank, the duo stop a robbery by taking down the two young armed gunmen. Then, they trash six young street punks trying to rob them. Richie informs them of their parole conditions. Harry, at 72, is committed to a retirement community; despite wanting to work, he is past the mandatory retirement age of 70. Archie, only 67, takes a job first at an ice cream parlor and later a restaurant. They cannot have further contact with each other for at least three years, and are closely monitored by Richie and Deke Yablonski, the officer who first arrested them.
Both Harry and Archie are in shock at how much the world has changed: clothing, sexuality (their old bar is now an openly gay men's club, women are more assertive), technology, and disrespect from youth. Archie's young female restaurant manager mistreats him, while Harry is denied proper food by a nasty retirement home orderly and the female manager is even nastier. Harry reconnects with his old flame Belle, and they sweetly reminisce about old times.
Archie embraces the much changed contemporary scene and at a unisex high-tech gym, the young manager Skye decides he is the only "real man" there. She gets Archie to adopt faddish clothes and invites him to a trendy disco nightclub, they gyrate to new wave music, and start a steamy affair which aging Archie cannot sustain.
Tired of trying to adjust to 1980s society under the eyes of the law, Harry and Archie go back to their old ways. First, trying to reassemble their old gang for a bank robbery, all surviving members are now either crippled or invalids. When they hijack an armored truck, they find it empty except for a roll of quarters, and are mocked by the media. To add insult to injury, they are mistaken for younger, disguised men.
Meanwhile, Leon tracks Richie down at his office and finds Harry's retirement home. He holds him and Belle hostage until Harry and Archie arrive and opens fire. Richie knocks Leon down and quickly escapes with them, then blames himself for getting them into trouble.
Archie decides to hijack the Gold Coast Flyer again as it makes its final southbound run after 50 years, asking Harry and Richie for help. Both refuse for moral reasons, so Archie decides to do it alone. He stops the Flyer just as it is leaving the railroad yard and is soon joined by Harry, hav