Djibril Diop Mambéty (January 1945 – July 23, 1998) was a Senegalese film director, actor, orator, composer and poet.  Though he made only five feature films and two short documentary films, they received international acclaim for their original and experimental cinematic technique and non-linear, unconventional narrative style.
Born to a Muslim family near Dakar, Senegal's capital city, Mambéty was an ethnic Wolof. He died in 1998 while being treated for lung cancer in a Paris hospital.


== Biography ==
Djibril Diop Mambéty was born in Colobane, Senegal, a town near Senegal's capital city of Dakar that he would feature prominently in some of his films. Mambéty was the son of a Muslim cleric and member of the Lebou tribe. Mambéty's interest in cinema began with theater. Having graduated from acting school in Senegal, Mambéty worked as a stage actor at the Daniel Sorano National Theater in Dakar until he was expelled for disciplinary reasons.
In 1969, at age 23, without any formal training in filmmaking, Mambéty directed and produced his first short film, Contras' City (City of Contrasts).  The following year Mambéty made another short, Badou Boy, which won the Silver Tanit award at the 1970 Carthage Film Festival in Tunisia.
Mambéty's technically sophisticated and richly symbolic first feature-length film, Touki Bouki (1973), received the International Critics Award at Cannes Film Festival and won the Special Jury Award at the Moscow Film Festival, bringing the Senegalese director international attention and acclaim.  Despite the film's success, nearly twenty years passed before Mambéty made another feature film.  During this hiatus he made one short film in 1989, Parlons Grandmère (Let's talk Grandmother).
Hyènes (1992), Mambéty's second and final feature film, was an adaptation of Friedrich Dürrenmatt's play The Visit and was conceptualized as a continuation of Touki Bouki.  At the time of his death, the film director had been working on a trilogy of short films called Contes des Petites Gens (Tales of the Little People).  The first of the three films was Le Franc (1994).  At the time of his death Mambéty had been editing the second film of that series, La Petite Vendeuse de Soleil (The Little Girl Who Sold the Sun), which premiered posthumously in 1999.
On July 23, 1998, Mambéty died of lung cancer at age 53 at a hospital in Paris, France.
He was the subject of a 2008 documentary film Mambéty For Ever.


== Film career ==


=== Contras'city ===
Djibril Diop Mambéty's earliest film, a short entitled Contras'city (1968), highlighted the contrasts of cosmopolitanism and unrestrained ostentation in Dakar's baroque architecture against the modest, everyday lives of the Senegalese.  Mambéty's recurrent theme of hybridity—the blending of elements from precolonial Africa and the colonial West in a neocolonial African context—is already evident in Contras'city, which is considered Africa's first comedy film.


=== Badou Boy ===

In 1970 Mambéty released his next short, Badou Boy, another sarcastic look at Senegal's capital that followed the adventures of what the director described as a "somewhat immoral street urchin who is very much like myself".  The contest pits the non-conformist individual against an absurdly caricatured policeman who pursues the protagonist through comedically improbable scenarios. Badou Boy celebrates an urban subculture while parodying the state.


=== Touki Bouki ===

Considered by many to be his most daring and important film, Mambéty's feature-length debut, Touki Bouki (The Hyena's Journey) more fully developed his earlier themes of hybridity and individual marginality and isolation.  Based on his own story and script, Djibril Diop Mambéty made Touki Bouki with a budget of $30,000—obtained in part from the Senegalese government. Though influenced by French New Wave, Touki Bouki displays a style all its own.  Its camerawork and soundtrack have a frenetic rhythm uncharacteristic of most African films—know