Citizen Toxie: The Toxic Avenger IV is a 2000 American superhero splatter comedy film directed by Lloyd Kaufman and written by Trent Haaga. It is the fourth installment of The Toxic Avenger franchise. Despite being the third sequel to The Toxic Avenger, Stan Lee's opening narration claims that Citizen Toxie is, in fact, the official sequel to the first film, disacknowledging the events of the first two sequels.


== Plot ==
At the Tromaville School for the Very Special, a criminal gang named the Diaper Mafia (who are literally thugs dressed as infants) break into the school and commit a mass shooting, wreaking havoc on the students. The Toxic Avenger ("Toxie" for short) shows up, under the guise of an attractive bikini news model, alongside his morbidly obese sidekick Lardass. They manage to fight off and kill most of the gang members in grotesque fashion with Toxie eviscerating the leader, Tex. However, before he dies, Tex unveils a chilling revelation: an explosive device is implanted in his body, threatening to destroy the entire school. Toxie randomly runs home quickly to impregnate his wife, Sarah, leaving Lardass to disarm the bomb; he manages to take care of it by smearing a jar of peanut butter over it, eating the bomb and draining it in his stomach through flatulence. Upon returning, Toxie rescues the pregnant teacher and two students, Tito and Sweetie Honey. However, the urgency of the situation forces them to leave Lardass behind -- which results in his demise when a Diaper Mafia member and a student, in a moment of intimacy, unknowingly trigger the explosive by lighting a cigarette.
The explosion ends up transporting Toxie and the students to Amortville, a mirror version of Tromaville in an alternate universe where the police shoot at Toxie, who is picked up by Evil Kabukiman (an evil version of Sgt. Kabukiman) who helps him escape the police. Back in Tromaville, Amortville’s version of Toxie, The Noxious Offender (Noxie), appears and starts murdering the citizens. Both supers are immensely confused by the surroundings. Toxie finds Tito and Sweetie Honey and ask them to stay where his home now isn’t. Noxie finds the Nazi Sergeant Kazinski to be an ally, whilst Mayor Goldberg introduces four new superheroes to Tromaville -- including a washed up Sgt. Kabukiman. Searching for answers, Toxie comes across a man named Pompey who, after being dragged along the back of a truck by rednecks, gets decapitated but is a still-living head. He also finds the Amortville’s version of Lardass (named Chester) who is a scientist broke on the streets. Chester’s former wife, Claire, is Noxie’s lover whom Toxie offers to bring back to Chester but gets into a fight with Evil Kabukiman in the process. Noxie becomes Mayor of Tromaville after killing off Mayor Goldberg, reverting the place into Amortville again, and impregnates Sarah. Toxie wanders into the factory of an evilized superhero, Mad Cowboy, where he finds Tito, Pompey and Sweetie Honey being held captive. After a fight, Toxie throws the villain into a meat grinder and the three make their escape. 
The Tromaville Superheroes attempt to take down Noxie and Kazinski, but are all killed, except for Sgt. Kabukiman who ends up drunkenly wandering into Toxie’s home and accidentally impregnates a sleeping Sarah. Claire, who wanders off as Toxie was fighting Evil Kabukiman, finds Chester and the two become a couple again. Sarah visits her gynecologist, who tells her that she is pregnant with two babies from two entirely different fathers and tries to unsuccessfully get an abortion. Toxie and Chester manage to find the solution to getting back to Tromaville: clicking red shoes together and saying “There’s no place like Tromaville” (akin to The Wizard of Oz). Tito, however, stays behind and dedicates himself to making Amortville safe with Pompey as his sidekick. Toxie and Sweetie Honey arrive in Tromaville to discover that Sarah is in labour. At the hospital, Toxie brutally slays the Nazi 