Train Ride to Hollywood is a 1975 American comedy/fantasy pop musical directed by Charles R. Rondeau and starring the Kansas City R&B group Bloodstone.


== Plot ==
The movie begins with a Bloodstone cover of "As Time Goes By" over the opening titles.
Bloodstone - Harry Williams, Charles Love, Charles McCormick, and Willis Draffen, Jr. - are about to go onstage for a concert at a theater while their opening act, a vocal group called the Sinceres, perform the Coasters' 1958 hit song "Yakety Yak."  In fact, the Sinceres are played by Bloodstone themselves, as "the Sinceres" was the name they performed under before getting a record deal. Bloodstone miss their cue to go onstage, much to the chagrin of a venal producer in charge of the show.  He barges into their dressing room to find them drinking champagne and watching an old movie on television.  Guitarist/singer Charles Love expresses his fondness for the movies of Hollywood's early Golden Age, declaring, "I don't just want to act in the movies; I want to live the movies!"
After prodding from the producer, Bloodstone make their way toward the stage, but the producer causes singer Harry Williams to fall, hit his head and lose consciousness.
When Williams comes to, he is in a dream in which he and his bandmates are in a railway station, and Williams' dream is being directed by a snooty film director, Eric Van Johnson, who appears repeatedly throughout the movie.  The band members learn that a movie studio in Hollywood, Wonder Studios, has open auditions for a new singing group and, lacking the money for train tickets, disguise themselves as porters to board a train bound for Los Angeles, and they perform their original song "Train Ride."
On board the train, Williams poses as a conductor and goes to the club car to collect tickets from the passengers.  There he finds, much to his surprise, that the passengers include either famous movie actors from the 1930s and 1940s - Humphrey Bogart, Clark Gable, Jean Harlow, and W.C. Fields, as well as Jeanette MacDonald and Nelson Eddy (who are constantly performing songs from their movie 
Rose Marie under a snowing cloud) - or famous movie characters - Dracula, Scarlett O'Hara (who is addressed throughout the movie as "Charlotte"), and also Vito Corleone from the 1972 movie The Godfather.  Williams also encounters an Arab sheik with seven wives (each one named for a day in the week), whom Corleone indicates that he wishes to adopt.  Williams returns to the baggage car and tells his bandmates that "something weird" is going on in the club car, but Love - already aware of the sheik's presence - dons a sheik's headdress and robe in an effort to woo one of the seven wives, while McCormick decides to roam around the train in search of train-track rhythms for new songs.
Draffen and Williams recognize the folly of continuing to pretend to be railroad workers, and Love attempts to romance the sheik's wife Saturday (Tracy Reed) in a sleeper car, during which he sings his original song "What Do I Have To Do?"  He almost gets caught by the sheik in a brief silent-movie scene where Saturday pokes her head out from behind a sleeper curtain while Love's  legs are exposed.  McCormick, meanwhile, meets a black female professor of African-American rhythms and charms her despite her skepticism of his rhythmic abilities while he sings his original song "Hooray For Romance."
Bloodstone and their traveling companions end up in the dining car, where Bogart requests a song while Draffen plays the piano.  Draffen responds by tearing into an original Bloodstone song, "Rock 'n' Roll Choo Choo," which references everyone on the train; virtually everyone dances to the music while Draffen's bandmates sing backing harmonies.  Bogart, having stood against the piano the whole time, admits when the song is over, "I guess I'm just a sentimental old fool.  I love the old songs."
The merriment is interrupted by the sheik walking in looking for the man who was with his seventh 