Brian Michael Firkus (born August 23, 1989), better known by the stage name Trixie Mattel, is an American drag queen, television personality, and singer-songwriter originally from Milwaukee, Wisconsin. She is known for her exaggerated, high-camp, 1960s-influenced style, distinctive eye makeup, and her blend of comedy, acoustic pop and folk-country music; Mattel sings and plays guitar and the autoharp. In 2015, she competed on the seventh season of the drag reality television competition RuPaul's Drag Race, placing sixth. In 2018, she went on to win the third season of RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars.
Together with fellow drag queen and frequent collaborator Katya Zamolodchikova, Mattel has formed one-half of the World of Wonder web series UNHhhh (2016–present) and its Viceland spin-off, The Trixie & Katya Show (2017–2018). The pair have also made appearances on the Netflix review web series I Like to Watch (2019–present), both together and with other queens. Together, they form the popular comedy duo known as Trixie and Katya. Mattel's music style is primarily folk and country, with her first and second studio albums, Two Birds (2017) and One Stone (2018), both charting on the Billboard Folk Albums chart at No. 16, respectively. Her third studio album, Barbara (2020), featured an "electro-folk" sound; her EP, Full Coverage, Vol. 1 (2021), consists of Mattel's covers of various songs. Her comedy special, Trixie Mattel: One Night Only (2020), was nominated for a Critics' Choice Television Award. She went on to appear as a judge on the competition series Queen of the Universe (2021–2023). Mattel's fourth studio album, The Blonde & Pink Albums (2022), served as a double album. Additionally, she produced and starred in the renovation docuseries Trixie Motel (2022), which also chronicled the planning, construction and opening of her own Palm Springs resort, the Trixie Motel.
Along with Zamolodchikova, Mattel published her first book, Trixie and Katya's Guide to Modern Womanhood (2020), which became a New York Times bestseller. She appeared on New York Magazine's list of "The Most Powerful Drag Queens in America", ranking fourth. She also operates a YouTube channel focused on beauty and music, featuring frequent collaborations with fellow drag queens and various celebrities, such as Iggy Azalea, Nicole Byer, Brittany Broski and Margaret Cho. Mattel's business ventures include being the founder and CEO of Trixie Cosmetics, a cosmetics brand that launched in 2019. Her persona is inspired by her love of Barbie dolls; she owns a large collection of Barbies that she has shared in videos on her YouTube channel.

