The Truman Show is a 1998 American psychological comedy drama film written and co-produced by Andrew Niccol, and directed by Peter Weir.
The film is the story of Truman Burbank (played by Jim Carrey), a man who is unaware that he is living his entire life on a colossal soundstage, and that it is being filmed and broadcast as a reality television show which has a huge international following.  All of his friends and family and members of his community are paid actors whose job it is sustain the illusion and keep Truman in the dark about the fiction he is living.
The movie's supporting cast includes Laura Linney, Ed Harris, Noah Emmerich, Natascha McElhone, Holland Taylor, Paul Giamatti, and Brian Delate.
Niccol's original spec script was more of a science-fiction thriller, with the story set in New York City. Producer Scott Rudin purchased the script and set up production at Paramount Pictures. Brian De Palma was to direct before Weir signed as director, making the film for $60 million—$20 million less than the original estimate. Niccol rewrote the script while the crew was waiting for Carrey to sign. The majority of filming took place at Seaside, Florida, a master-planned community located in the Florida Panhandle.
The Truman Show held its world premiere in Los Angeles on June 1, 1998, and was released in North America on June 5. The film was a financial success, grossing $264 million worldwide, debuting to critical acclaim, and earned numerous nominations at the 71st Academy Awards, 56th Golden Globe Awards, 52nd British Academy Film Awards, and 25th Saturn Awards. The Truman Show has been analyzed as an exploration of simulated reality, existentialism, surveillance, metaphilosophy, privacy, and reality television, and described as a genre-blending work that features elements of dystopian fiction, meta fiction, psychological drama, romantic comedy, satire, and social science fiction.


== Plot ==
Selected at birth and legally adopted by a television studio following an unwanted pregnancy, Truman Burbank is the unsuspecting star of The Truman Show, a reality television program filmed 24/7 through approximately five thousand hidden cameras and broadcast worldwide. Christof, the show's creator and executive producer, seeks to capture Truman's authentic emotions and give audiences a relatable everyman.
Truman's hometown, Seahaven Island, is set inside an enormous soundstage.  The immense and elaborate set allows Christof to control almost every aspect of Truman's life, including the weather.  Truman's world is populated by actors and crew members who serve both as Truman's community and carefully keep him from discovering the truth.  They also earn revenue for the show by cleverly-disguised product placement.  To prevent Truman from escaping his fictional world, Christof has placed Truman's town on an island and has orchestrated scenarios to instill thalassophobia (a fear of the sea) such as the "death" of his father in a boating disaster.  The rest of the cast steadily reinforces Truman's anxieties by messages about the dangers of traveling and the virtues of staying home.
Truman is intended by the producers to fall in love with and marry fellow student Meryl, but during his college years he develops feelings for Sylvia, an extra.  Sylvia sympathizes with Truman's surreal plight and tries to tell him his life is a fiction, but she is fired from the show and forcibly removed from the set before she can convince him.  Truman marries Meryl as "written," but his marriage is stilted and passionless, and he secretly continues to imagine a life with Sylvia, and dreams of traveling to Fiji, where he has been told she moved. Meanwhile, in the real world, Sylvia joins "Free Truman", an activist group that wants to liberate the unwitting TV star from what they think is a show-business prison.
As the show approaches its 30th anniversary, Truman begins to notice unusual occurrences: a stage light which serves as a star in the night sky falls