Twin Peaks: Fire Walk with Me is a 1992 psychological horror film directed by David Lynch and written by Lynch and Robert Engels. It serves as a prequel to the television series Twin Peaks (1990–1991), created by Mark Frost and Lynch, who were also executive producers. It revolves around the investigation into the murder of Teresa Banks (Pamela Gidley) and the last seven days in the life of Laura Palmer (Sheryl Lee), a popular high school student in the fictional Washington town of Twin Peaks. Unlike the series, which was an uncanny blend of detective fiction, horror, the supernatural, offbeat humor, and soap opera tropes, the film has a much darker, less humorous tone.
Most of the television cast reprised their roles, though the majority of their scenes were cut. A few notable cast members, including Lara Flynn Boyle, Sherilyn Fenn, and Richard Beymer, did not reappear for various reasons. Boyle's character Donna Hayward was recast with Moira Kelly. Kyle MacLachlan, who starred as Special Agent Dale Cooper in the series, was reluctant to return out of fear of being typecast, which resulted in a smaller presence in the film than originally planned. Two planned sequels never came to fruition, but 91 minutes worth of deleted scenes were released in 2014 through the compilation Twin Peaks: The Missing Pieces, and the story's narrative continued through the 2017 series Twin Peaks: The Return.
Fire Walk with Me premiered at the 1992 Cannes Film Festival, where it was nominated for the Palme d'Or. It has long been reported that the film was booed and jeered by the audience there, though co-writer Robert Engels denies this happened. Upon release, the film received polarized reviews from critics in the United States and was a box office failure domestically, although it fared much better in Japan. The film has been positively reevaluated in the 21st century, and it is now widely regarded as one of Lynch's major works and one of the greatest films of the 1990s.


== Plot ==


=== Deer Meadow prologue ===
In 1988, in the small town of Deer Meadow, Washington teenage drifter Teresa Banks' body floats down a river, wrapped in plastic. FBI Regional Bureau Chief Gordon Cole sends agents Chester Desmond and Sam Stanley to investigate.
While examining Teresa's body, the agents notice that a ring is missing from her finger, and find a small piece of paper with the letter "T" inserted under the fingernail. A local waitress later tells them that Teresa's arm went numb before she died. At Teresa's trailer, Desmond notices a photo of her wearing a strange ring. At dusk, Desmond finds the ring on a mound under a trailer. He reaches out to take it.
At FBI headquarters in Philadelphia, Agent Dale Cooper tells Cole of his foreboding dream. Their long-lost colleague, Agent Phillip Jeffries, materializes and insanely rants about a meeting he witnessed involving mysterious spirits. A vision of these spirits—the Jumping Man, the Man from Another Place, Killer BOB, and Mrs. Chalfont and her grandson—appears briefly before Jeffries vanishes. Sitting nearby, Agent Albert Rosenfield reports that Jeffries was never there and Desmond has disappeared. To search for Desmond, Cooper is sent to  Deer Meadow, but he learns nothing.


=== The Last Seven Days of Laura Palmer ===
One year later in Twin Peaks, high school homecoming queen Laura Palmer uses cocaine and cheats on her boyfriend Bobby Briggs with biker James Hurley. She discovers that pages are missing from her secret diary, and gives the rest of it to her agoraphobic friend Harold Smith for safekeeping.
Mrs. Chalfont and her grandson later appear to Laura. They present a small framed picture for her wall, and warn her that the "man behind the mask" is in her bedroom. Laura runs home and sees BOB behind her dresser. She rushes outside in terror and sees her father, Leland, emerge from the house. That evening, Leland accusingly questions Laura about her romances and screams at her to wash her hands. At bedti