Two Guys and a Girl (titled Two Guys, a Girl and a Pizza Place for the first two seasons) is an American television sitcom created by Rick Wiener, Kenny Schwartz, and Danny Jacobson. The series started as a short-run (thirteen episodes) mid-season replacement on March 11, 1998, on ABC. The series ran for four seasons, ending with a planned series finale, its eighty-first episode, on May 16, 2001.
The series starred Ryan Reynolds, Richard Ruccolo, and Traylor Howard as the title characters. The second season saw the arrival of two additional recurring characters: Johnny Donnelly (Nathan Fillion) and Ashley Walker (Suzanne Cryer). In 2000, for the fourth season, ABC moved the sitcom from midweek to a Friday night death slot, leading to a steep drop in ratings. After the show moved back to Wednesday for a two-week trial in an unsuccessful attempt to regain ratings, it was cancelled in May 2001. The series finale was titled "The Internet Show", an episode in which fans of the show voted on the characters' outcome online.


== Overview ==

Focusing on the lives of twenty-somethings Michael Bergen, Pete Dunville, and Sharon Carter, the show was originally based on the life of its creator. The fictional "Beacon Street Pizza" was based on a real pizza restaurant named Theo's Pizza in Teele Square, Somerville, Massachusetts, where show creator Kenny Schwartz worked while attending nearby Tufts University. The show is set in Boston, but was filmed at CBS Studio Center in Studio City, Los Angeles, California.
The series stars Ryan Reynolds as Michael Leslie "Berg" Bergen, Richard Ruccolo as Peter "Pete" Dunville, and Traylor Howard as campus beauty Sharon Carter (later Carter-Donnelly). In the first two seasons, Berg, a slacker, works at a Boston pizza parlour, Beacon Street Pizza, with Pete. They both attend Tufts University, with Sharon, who after graduation, works as the spokesperson (or apologist) for Immaculate Chemicals.
The format of the initial season varied considerably from subsequent seasons. The first season features Jennifer Westfeldt as Melissa, Pete's girlfriend, and David Ogden Stiers as Mr Bauer, a delusional old man who frequents the pizza place, pretending that experiences from films are his own. The second season abandons these two characters, focusing on the interplay between Pete and Berg and their relationship with Sharon, who lives in the apartment above them. Berg eventually decides to attend medical school and become a doctor, while Pete drops out of architecture classes to become a career counsellor. The second season also introduces Johnny Donnelly (Nathan Fillion), a jukebox repairman who starts dating Sharon, and Ashley Walker (Suzanne Cryer), a medical school classmate of Berg's who competes with him to be top of the class.
At the start of season three, the pizza place is abandoned entirely (hence the change in the show's title), and Berg begins his medical residency. Pete becomes a vice president of a cosmetics company, and then a firefighter. Johnny and Sharon marry and become the superintendents of their apartment building. Berg goes on to date Irene (Jillian Bach), the eccentric neighbor across the hall and Pete begins dating a fellow firefighter named Marti (Tiffani Thiessen).


== Episodes ==


== Cast and characters ==


=== Main ===
Ryan Reynolds as Michael Eugene Leslie "Berg" Bergen – the mischievous everyman with boyish looks who often creates chaos in the lives of his friends, particularly Pete. While in college, he has difficulty settling on what he wants to do in life. Eventually he decides on becoming a doctor, and meets Ashley, a worthy competitor, at medical school. They begin a relationship but eventually break up due to her inability to reciprocate his feelings. Near the end of the show, he and Irene, Pete's former stalker, form a relationship.
Richard Ruccolo as Peter Dunville – often neurotic and anxious about what may occur with his professional and romantic life. Early in the show, he