Two Girls and a Guy is a 1997 American black comedy-drama film written and directed by James Toback and produced by Edward R. Pressman and Chris Hanley. It stars Robert Downey Jr., Heather Graham and Natasha Gregson Wagner.
The film is mainly based upon dialogue between the characters. It was shot almost entirely in real time, and within a single setting, leading some reviewers to compare the film to a stage play.
Director James Toback told interviewers he wrote the film's screenplay in only four days and shot the film in eleven days.


== Plot ==
Two girls, Carla and Lou, meet on the street outside a loft waiting for their boyfriends. After a short time, they find out that they are waiting for the same guy – young actor Blake, who said that he loves both of them but had actually been leading a double life for several months. Angry, they break into his loft and when he returns, a round of accusations and explanations begins.


== Cast ==
Robert Downey Jr. as Blake Allen
Heather Graham as Carla Bennett
Natasha Gregson Wagner as Lou
Frederique van der Wal as Carol
Angel David as Tommy


== Production ==


=== Casting ===
Robert Downey Jr. had previously worked with director James Toback on the 1987 film The Pick-Up Artist. Alongside The Gingerbread Man, Two Girls and a Guy was Downey Jr.'s first role after a 1996 drug arrest. Toback wrote the film's screenplay in response to seeing Downey Jr. handcuffed on television. He remembered, "I felt bad for him but at the same time I thought, when he gets out of rehab, it’ll be a good time to try something bold and ambitious with him."  
It has been reported that Downey Jr. was drug-tested on the set every day, and that roles such as this helped him temporarily stay clean before his eventual relapse in September 1997. This relapse would coincide with the film's premiere on the festival circuit, and Downey Jr. ended up being arrested again in December 1997. Toback said in 1998, "I was worried that he wouldn’t get out. Either he’d be killed or commit suicide, one or the other. I mean, I think he is ideally unsuited to incarceration. He is an exuberant, gentle, free spirit. His violence is all verbal. He is not looking to get into fights with people. There is just about nobody I could think of — physically, emotionally, psychologically — who is less qualified to handle jail."
In an interview with People magazine, Natasha Gregson Wagner implied she accepted the role of Louise (nicknamed Lou in the film) because she wanted to appear in unconventional or controversial pictures, stating that "I like working with bold people who want to make an impact. I’m not interested in being just another pretty face." In 2018, Natasha Leggero revealed on Jimmy Kimmel Live! that Toback sexually harassed her under the guise of potentially casting her for Two Girls and a Guy.


=== Filming and post-production ===
Principal photography began during 1997 in New York City. Before filming started, Gregson Wagner convinced director Toback to remove a scene he originally wanted where her character masturbated to Downey Jr. and Heather Graham having sex, as she believed it was not realistic. 
A scene where Downey Jr. is interrogated by the two female leads while in a bathroom was improvised and co-written by the actors. Toback said at the time, "for anyone who’s looking to understand Robert’s past, present, and future, all you really have to do is look at that scene, and that’s the answer." On the set of the film, Toback's only directions for Downey Jr. were: "delight me, amuse me, fascinate me, frighten me, horrify me, engage me." Toback said, "that’s what he wants to hear, and he will deliver." Downey Jr. later recalled that, "I knew Toback would give me the freedom to let my spirit go."
In order for the film to receive an R-rating rather than an NC-17 rating, the sex scene involving Downey Jr. and Graham was toned down and re-edited. Both cuts have since been made available on home media.


== Release ==
In the fa