Two or Three Things I Know About Her (French: Deux ou trois choses que je sais d'elle) is a 1967 French New Wave film written and directed by Jean-Luc Godard, one of three features he completed that year. As with the other two (La Chinoise and Weekend), it is considered both socially and stylistically radical. Village Voice critic Amy Taubin considers the film to be among the greatest achievements in filmmaking.


== Description ==
Although there are actors reciting lines in many of the scenes, the film does not have the structure or style of a conventional narrative film (with an introduction, conflict, and resolution), and is, instead, more of an essay film about Godard's view of contemporary life. There are shots of the ongoing construction in Paris interspersed between and within the dramatized scenes, the cast often breaks the fourth wall by looking into the camera and delivering monologues about their thoughts and lives, and a large percentage of the soundtrack is occupied by Godard's philosophical whispered narration about such topics as politics, reality, consciousness, and meaning.
The dramatic plot of the film presents just over 24 hours in the sophisticated, but empty, life of Juliette Jeanson, a bourgeois married mother of two young children who works as a prostitute during the day. The morning after an uneventful evening spent at her home in one of the new high-rise apartment buildings on the outskirts of Paris, Juliette travels to the city proper, where she drops off her screaming daughter with a man who watches the children of several prostitutes in his brothel-like apartment. She shops for a dress at a fashionable store, goes to a cafe (where she sees several other housewife/prostitutes), has an appointment with a young client, and visits a beauty salon. Then, she and Marianne, her manicurist, visit her husband, Robert, at the garage/car wash at which he works, on their way to an appointment with John Bogus, a war correspondent for an American newspaper who Marianne has seen before. After having Juliette and Marianne parade back and forth naked (except for bags with airline logos on their heads), Bogus invites Juliette to join him and Marianne in bed, but Juliette refuses and, instead, thinks about her awareness of the Vietnam War, and then about her husband. In a cafe, Robert talks to the woman at the next table while he waits for Juliette to come pick him up, and, nearby, a Nobel Prize-winning writer talks with a young female fan. When she gets home, Juliette reflects on a meaningful, but only partly-remembered, experience she had that day and does her typical evening routine. In bed, she tries, unsuccessfully, to talk with Robert about modern man and love before giving up and asking him for a cigarette.


== Cast ==

Jean-Luc Godard provides the whispered narration heard throughout the film.


== Background and production ==
The film was inspired by "Les étoiles filantes" ("The Shooting Stars"), a 1966 article in Le Nouvel Observateur by Catherine Vimenet about prostitution among the housewives in the new high-rise suburbs of Paris. About his intentions, Godard stated that the film was "a continuation of the movement begun by Resnais in Muriel: an attempt at description of a phenomenon known in mathematics and sociology as a 'complex'", and that "basically what I am doing is making the spectator share the arbitrary nature of my choices, and the quest for general rules which might justify a particular choice", adding: "I watch myself filming, and you hear me thinking aloud. In other words, it isn't a film, it's an attempt at a film and presented as such." He also said he "wanted to include everything: sports, politics, even groceries" in the film, and, indeed, the film's most famous shot is a lengthy close-up of a cup of coffee.
Godard began production on the film in the summer of 1966. Shortly afterward, he was approached by producer Georges de Beauregard, who asked him to quickly make a film to offset a fin