Universal Soldier: The Return is a 1999 American science fiction action film directed by Mic Rodgers in his directorial debut, written by William Malone and John Fasano, and produced by Craig Baumgarten, Allen Shapiro (producers of the first film) and Jean-Claude Van Damme who also stars in the film reprising his role as Luc Deveraux. The film also stars Michael Jai White (briefly appeared in the first film as a soldier), Heidi Schanz, Xander Berkeley, Justin Lazard, Kiana Tom, Daniel von Bargen, James R. Black, Karis Paige Bryant and Bill Goldberg. The film was theatrically released in the United States on August 20, 1999. This was Van Damme's last widely released film in the United States until 2012.
It is a direct sequel to the 1992 film Universal Soldier and the fourth film in the Universal Soldier film series, preceded by two made-for-TV movies, Universal Soldier II: Brothers in Arms and Universal Soldier III: Unfinished Business, which this film ignores, thereby presenting an alternate continuity. The film was received with negative reviews and grossed over $10 million in theaters in the United States. The fifth installment in the series, a direct-to-video film Universal Soldier: Regeneration, was released in 2009, ten years after the film's release, ignoring the events of The Return and being an alternative sequel to the first film.


== Plot ==
At least 15 years after Andrew Scott's death, former UniSol Luc Deveraux has been reverted to normal via genetic procedures. He currently works as a technical expert for the U.S. government with his new partner Maggie, who has been through countless hours of combat training with him. They worked to refine and perfect the UniSol Program in an effort to make a new, stronger breed of soldiers that are more sophisticated and intelligent to reduce the use of normal, human soldiers in the battlefield. All of the new UniSols, known as UniSols 2500, which are faster and stronger than the original UniSols, are connected via neural implants through a sentient artificially intelligent computer system called S.E.T.H. (Self-Evolving Thought Helix).
When S.E.T.H. discovers that the UniSol Program is scheduled to be shut down because of budget cuts, he finds this to be a disgrace and decides to take action by formulating a plot to overthrow mankind and take over the world with his own massive army of UniSols. The next day, S.E.T.H. unleashes a platoon of UniSols, led by the musclebound Romeo, in a hostile takeover of the UniSol building, resulting in the deaths of many occupants, including Dr. Dylan Cotner, who was responsible for reverting Luc back to normal. As such, Luc, Maggie, and the others are forced to evacuate. With the help of a rogue cyberpunk named Squid, S.E.T.H. is able to put himself into a UniSol body superior to the others. In the meantime, Maggie noticed that Luc's daughter Hillary Deveraux has suffered brain swelling after almost being attacked by Romeo, and Maggie takes her to the local hospital.
Luc attempts to find a way to shut down S.E.T.H. with help from ambitious reporter Erin Young, whose cameraman died in the massacre. General Radford wants to take extreme measures to stop S.E.T.H. by sending in troops, but most of the troops (alongside a TV reporter and her crew) were massacred by four UniSols; even when Luc briefly tried to lead a team of United States Army Rangers commanded by Captain Blackburn and Sergeant Morrow, most of the Rangers (including Blackburn and Morrow) are killed when a UniSol sentry sees them sneaking into the building.
Luc and Erin then track down Squid after learning that he was a former member of the UniSol Program, but S.E.T.H. arrives and kills Squid, revealing an ultimatum to Luc: he must give up the secret code that is needed to deactivate a built-in program that will shut S.E.T.H. down in a matter of hours so that no one will stop him. To ensure that Luc will cooperate, a departing S.E.T.H. got Romeo to track down Hillary at the hospital, 