Urban Legends: Final Cut (also known as Urban Legends 2: Final Cut or simply Urban Legend 2) is a 2000 slasher film directed by John Ottman in his directorial debut, and starring Jennifer Morrison, Matthew Davis, Hart Bochner, Joseph Lawrence, Anthony Anderson, and Loretta Devine. In addition to directing, Ottman also edited the film and composed its score. A sequel to Urban Legend (1998), it is the second installment in the Urban Legend film series. It follows a film student being stalked by a serial killer in a fencing mask, who begins murdering the crew members of her thesis film about urban legends.
Filmed in late 1999, Urban Legends: Final Cut was released in the United States on September 22, 2000 by Columbia Pictures. Although it made only roughly half of its predecessor's gross, it was still successful, grossing $38.6 million on a budget of $14 million. The film was universally panned by critics upon release, and was followed by the direct-to-video sequel Urban Legends: Bloody Mary in 2005.


== Plot ==
After conversing with security guard Reese Wilson about a murder spree that had happened on the campus where she had previously worked, Amy Mayfield, a student at prestigious film school Alpine University, is inspired to make her thesis film about a serial killer murdering in the fashion of urban legends. Meanwhile, fellow student Lisa has a drink with classmate Travis Stark at a bar before her flight. Starting to feel dazed, she is attacked and awakens in a bathtub filled with ice, discovering that her kidney has been removed. Attacked by her abductor, she tries to flee through the window, but is decapitated.
The next day, Amy is preparing to shoot her film but the assigned camera man, Toby Belcher, quits and accuses her of stealing his thesis idea. When Sandra Petruzzi, Amy's actress friend who played a victim in a scene, returns to an empty studio after forgetting her keys, she is killed with a straight razor. Her peers witness her filmed death when the material is smuggled into a sequence of takes of the scene. Amy is disturbed by it, but her peers discount it as part of a showreel.
Travis is said to have committed suicide in the campus tower. At his funeral, Graham Manning, the son of a Hollywood director, offers to help Amy with her film; when she declines, he reveals that her father was a famous documentarian, which she has concealed from most of their peers. Afterwards, Travis' twin brother, Trevor, shares his belief that his brother was murdered. Later, while Amy is recording audio loops of screams for the film, the killer, wearing a fencing mask, fatally beats replacement cameraman Simon Jabuscko outside with his own camera, and the audio is inadvertently recorded. He then attacks and chases her through the campus but she evades him.
Before the filming of another scene in an empty carnival ride, sophomores Stan Washington and Dirk Reynolds are attacked and electrocuted while preparing the set. Amy discovers the corpses, escapes a confrontation with the killer, and informs the police, who attribute the deaths to accidental electrocution. Trevor comforts Amy, and during their period of sexual intercourse, he suddenly stabs her. She awakens, realizing that it was only a dream, but then notices a light inside the bell tower. When Amy arrives there, her friend Vanessa Valdeon presents a note addressed to her that Amy supposedly wrote expressing romantic feelings for Vanessa, but Amy denies writing the note. The killer startles them and pursues them after Amy presses a panic button. Once she reaches the top, the killer locks her in a closet, where she finds the corpses of Simon and Sandra. Upon breaking free, she finds Vanessa hanging from the bell. Amy runs out passing Reese, who was notified of the disturbance via the campus security system.
Trevor tells Amy all the victims worked on Travis' thesis film. After watching some footage, they suspect Toby, the only person who worked on the film that is still alive, kid