This is a list of urban legends. An urban legend, myth, or tale is a modern genre of folklore. It often consists of fictional stories associated with the macabre, superstitions, ghosts, demons, cryptids, extraterrestrials, creepypasta, and other fear generating narrative elements. Urban legends are often rooted in local history and popular culture.


== 0–9 ==
The 27 Club is an urban legend that popular musicians and other celebrated artists die at age 27 with statistically anomalous frequency, notably Brian Jones, Jimi Hendrix, Janis Joplin, Mia Zapata,  Jim Morrison, Kurt Cobain, and Amy Winehouse. The claim of a "statistical spike" for the death of musicians at that age has been repeatedly disproven by studies.
The 999 phone charging myth is an urban legend which claims that calling an emergency telephone number, then promptly hanging up, charges mobile phone batteries.
The 1962 Halloween massacre was an urban legend about a photo of a Halloween costume party in 1962, in which seven people were purportedly killed.
The 2016 clown sightings were urban legends that rose in popularity during 2016 about an individual or group dressed up as clowns who stalk, harass, or otherwise scare random people.


== A ==
Aerial water bomber picking up scuba diver is an urban legend about an aerial water bomber, or a helicopter with a dangling water bucket, scooping up a scuba diver and dumping them on a wildfire site. This legend was used as a plot device in the films Magnolia and Barney's Version. The urban legend debunking site Snopes.com reports there are no proven cases of this happening in reality. The Discovery Channel show MythBusters also disproved the myth.
Anastasia Romanov’s survival is a popular urban legend claiming that the Grand Duchess Anastasia Nikolaevna of Russia survived after her family was killed in 1918. The legend originated from the fact that Anastasia’s remains weren’t buried with the corpses of her family. It remained a mystery for many years, until the truth was uncovered in 2007 : Anastasia didn’t survive, but was in fact buried in another place than her family.
Alexandria's Genesis is a purported genetic mutation that gives its carrier purple eyes, shimmering pale skin, a lack of body hair, and a lack of menstruation while still remaining fertile. The legend originated in a Daria fanfiction written in 1998, and since the 2000s has seen circulation on internet forums and social media.
The Ankle slicing car thief (or the man under the car) is an urban legend that tells of a driver that keeps hearing noises under their car when they are driving. When they step out of the car to investigate, their ankles get sliced open with a knife. While they are rolling around on the ground in pain, a car thief emerges from underneath the car and steals it.
Area 51 is another name for a portion of the Nevada Test and Training Range that UFO enthusiasts have theorized contains evidence of visitors from outer space. There is no evidence for any of these claims.


== B ==
Baby Train is an urban legend which claims that a small town had an unusually high birth rate because a train would pass through the town at 5:00 am and blow its whistle, waking up all the residents. Since it was too late to go back to sleep and too early to get up, couples would have sex. This resulted in the mini baby-boom.
The Backrooms is an urban legend originating from a 2019 4chan thread that claimed an "out of bounds" area of reality existed, resembling liminal spaces, which could be accessed accidentally and could not be escaped from. The legend soon developed to include real or implied creatures that terrorize and hunt people trapped in the Backrooms.
The babysitter and the man upstairs (also known as the babysitter or the sitter) is an urban legend dating back to the 1960s about a teenage girl babysitting children who receives telephone calls from a stalker who continually asks her to "check the children", all while secretly being in the same house as th