Vampire in Brooklyn is a 1995 American vampire comedy horror film directed by Wes Craven. It stars Eddie Murphy, who produced and wrote with his brothers Vernon Lynch and Charles Q. Murphy. The film co-stars Angela Bassett, Allen Payne, Kadeem Hardison, John Witherspoon, Zakes Mokae, and Joanna Cassidy. Murphy also plays an alcoholic preacher, Pauly, and a foul-mouthed Italian-American mobster, Guido, respectively.
Vampire in Brooklyn was the final film produced under Eddie Murphy's exclusive contract with Paramount Pictures, which began with 48 Hrs. (1982) and included the Beverly Hills Cop franchise (1984–1994).
Vampire in Brooklyn was released theatrically in the United States on October 27, 1995. It received mostly negative reviews from critics and failed to meet the studio's expectations, as it was unsuccessful at the box office. Despite this, Vampire In Brooklyn has become regarded as a cult classic and has been subject to critical re-evaluation especially towards Craven's direction, Murphy and Bassett's performances and chemistry and the humor.


== Plot ==
In Brooklyn, New York, an abandoned, decrepit ship crashes into a dockyard. Ship inspector Silas Green discovers it is full of ravaged corpses and a wolf which leaves the ship. His co-worker and nephew Julius Jones flees in terror, running into gangsters to whom he owes money. The wolf, in his true form as the powerful, millennia-old vampire Maximillian (Max), intervenes and is shot, but instantly heals from his injuries. After killing the gangsters, Max forces Julius to consume his blood, transforming him into a decaying, subservient ghoul. Seemingly the last of his kind, Max explains that a lone vampire is doomed and so he must find and fully transform the only known half-vampire woman to exist before the next full moon.
Unaware of her vampire heritage, NYPD Detective Rita Veder is struggling with the recent death of her mentally ill mother and is tormented by unexplained visions which cause her colleagues to ostracize and belitte her. As she and her partner Detective Justice investigate the ship murders, Max enacts his plan to isolate Rita, seducing and killing her roommate Nikki and convincing her that Nikki and Justice, for whom she has romantic feelings, were having sex. Max uses his transformative powers to kill and take the guise of her preacher and a criminal, further guiding her down his intended path while causing her to distrust Justice. Max eventually saves Rita from being run over by a taxi and she agrees to have dinner with him. He magically gives Julius' dilapidated apartment a luxurious appearance and successfully enthralls Rita, tearing off her crucifix necklace and biting her.
The next day, while investigating Julius's potential involvement in the ship murders, Justice learns that Rita spent the night with Max and is informed that Nikki's body has been found. Justice finds Rita in her apartment, having slept all day, and tells her that Nikki was found posed as in one of Rita's visions, suggesting they are prophetic. Rita reconciles with Justice but almost instinctually bites him before seeing her fading reflection in the mirror. She confronts Max about the changes occurring in her. Max reveals that Rita's vampire father had told him where to find her before his death at the hands of vampire hunters; his death was responsible for driving Rita's mother insane. Max tempts Rita to accept her transformation, demonstrating his vampiric abilities and reminding her that humans had treated her poorly.
Justice seeks help from vampire expert Dr. Zeko, who knew Rita's mother when she was researching the vampires of the Caribbean Islands and met Rita's father; Zeko explains that Rita's transformation will be irreversible if she feeds on human blood. Max takes Rita hunting but she refuses to drink a victim's blood, causing her to grow weak, and seeks divine help at a graveyard. At Julius' apartment, Justice and Zeko intervene before Max can force her to drink Si