The War Zone is a 1999 British drama film written by Alexander Stuart, directed by Tim Roth in his directorial debut, and starring Ray Winstone, Tilda Swinton, Lara Belmont, and Freddie Cunliffe. The film is based on Stuart's 1989 novel of the same name and takes a blunt look at incest and sexual violence in an English family.


== Plot ==
15-year-old Tom is upset after his family moves from London to a rural house in Devon. He misses his friends, and family dynamics are strange. His Mum is in the late stages of pregnancy, his Dad is in the home-furniture industry. Tom and his 18-year-old sister Jessie are unusually close to each other, and everyone helps Mum during her pregnancy.
One night, Mum goes into labour and Dad drives the whole family to the hospital. The car crashes, but nobody is badly injured and a baby girl is born while Mum is trapped in the car. They all go to the hospital to get stitched up and they see Mum and the baby happy. Later, while coming home from shopping with Mum, Tom complains he doesn't know anybody, but she assures him he will make friends. When they arrive home, Tom enters the house through the back door and something catches his attention.
Tom confronts Jessie and asks about what he saw: Dad and Jessie, naked in a bathtub together. Jessie acts as if nothing happened, but he is adamant about what he witnessed. The family goes out to the pub, and Jessie introduces Tom to her boyfriend Nick, who drives Jessie and Tom down to the beach. They engage in awkward conversation before Jessie and Nick disappear, leaving Tom alone by the fire. The parents are furious with them for staying out all night without telling them, and Mum must restrain Dad from harming Jessie. Later, Tom tells Jessie that he suspects that her and Dad's behavior has been ongoing. Jessie neither confirms nor denies this, causing Tom to lash out in anger.
Later, Dad tells them he is going for a run. Full of suspicion and armed with a video camera, Tom follows Dad and Jessie into an old war bunker near the beach. Filming through a hole in the wall, he witnesses Dad sodomizing Jessie against her will. Tom walks off and, devastated, throws the camera into the sea.
Tom accuses Jessie of being sick because of her actions with their father. Jessie lets him burn her breast with a lighter to make him feel better, but this satisfies neither and he tells her it must stop. Later she takes Tom on a trip to London to see a friend, Carol, who attempts to seduce him at Jessie's behest, but stops when she walks in on them.
One night, Tom is woken up by Mum, who tells him they must urgently go to the hospital because the baby is unwell. Jessie drives Tom home from the hospital, leaving Dad with Mum and the baby. When they get home they see Lucy, who offers Jessie comfort if she needs it. Lucy appears to know something that the viewer doesn't. Later, Tom decides to cycle back to the hospital, where he sees baby Alice, and when Mum comes in they see blood in her nappy. He tells Mum never to let Dad near the baby and not to trust him, but leaves before she can respond.
When Tom returns home, Dad tells him that Mum called from the hospital and confronts him, saying he's lying, and Tom says he is telling the truth, whereupon Dad attacks him physically, saying that Tom is breaking up the family and that he will put Tom into care. Jessie is crying throughout, arms over her head covering her ears.  Dad then leaves to see Mum.
Tom and Jessie lie next to each other in bed and Jessie thanks him for standing up to Dad. Tom and Jessie enter Dad's room after he returns. He continues to deny his behaviour and claims that Tom is making things up because he misses London, is unhappy, and is putting ideas into Jessie's head. Jessie backs Tom up, but is upset by Dad's continued gaslighting.
As Dad blusters, Tom realises that he will not change. He stabs Dad in the stomach with a kitchen knife. Dad screams in pain on the floor. Tom and Jessie watch him gasping and bleed