Welcome to Sarajevo is a 1997 war drama film directed by Michael Winterbottom, written by Frank Cottrell Boyce and is based on the book Natasha's Story by Michael Nicholson. The film stars Stephen Dillane, Woody Harrelson, Marisa Tomei, Emira Nušević, Kerry Fox, Goran Višnjić, James Nesbitt, and Emily Lloyd.
Welcome to Sarajevo had its world premieres at Cannes and the Toronto International Film Festival in May and September 1997, and was released in the United Kingdom on 21 November 1997, by FilmFour, and in the United States on 26 November 1997, by Miramax.


== Plot ==
In 1992, ITN reporter Michael Henderson travels to Sarajevo, the besieged capital of Bosnia and Herzegovina, during the ongoing war. There, he meets American star journalist Jimmy Flynn on the chase for the most exciting stories and pictures.
Henderson and Flynn have friendly discussions and differences in the intervals between reporting. They stay at the Holiday Inn, which was the primary hotel for the press in Sarajevo during the siege. After a previous translator proves corrupt and inept, ITN hires Risto Bavić to be Henderson's translator.
Their work permits them harrowing and unobstructed views of the suffering of the people of Sarajevo. The situation changes when Henderson makes a report from Ljubica Ivezic, an orphanage located on the front lines, in which two hundred children live in desperate conditions. After increasingly indiscriminate attacks fail to make the lead story in the United Kingdom, Henderson makes the orphanage his lead story to try to bring full attention to the war and encourage the evacuation of the children to safety.
When American aid worker Nina organizes a UN-sanctioned bus-borne evacuation of Sarajevan children to Italy, Henderson convinces her to include Emira, a Bosniak girl from the orphanage, to whom Henderson had made a promise to evacuate. Nina knows this is an illegal act, only transfers to relatives abroad have been authorised, but the orphanage director allows it because of the desperate circumstances. Henderson and his cameraman accompany the evacuation under the pretense of covering it as a news story. However, Bosnian Serbs hinder the evacuation at several points along its route. In the final harassment, armed Chetniks halt the bus, select and forcibly disembark the Bosnian Serb orphans, identifying them through their first names, and take them away on their lorry, as they refuse to let them go to the West.
Henderson makes it home to London with Emira, adopting her into his family. After several months, Henderson receives word from a former producer in Sarajevo that Emira's estranged mother wants her back. Henderson, who didn't know that her mother was living, returns to Sarajevo, now driven not only by the siege but also by organised crime, and seeks out Risto, who has become a Bosnian soldier.
Henderson asks him to help find Emira's mother. They discover from a relative that Emira was put into the orphanage as an infant by her mother under familial pressure. When Risto is killed in his home by a sniper, Henderson asks for help from Zeljko, a concierge at the Holiday Inn, who Henderson had helped in the past. Zeljko negotiates the streets and road-blocks that lead to Emira's mother, who is desperate for the girl to live with her. However, she is persuaded that Emira is happy in England and so signs the adoption papers.
A running joke in the movie is the designation by a UN official that Sarajevo was only the 14th worst crisis in the world. In the middle of the movie, Harun, a cellist friend of Risto, says that he would play a concert on the streets of Sarajevo once it is designated the worst place on Earth. Though he acknowledges the danger, he claims that "the people will die happily listening to my music." The movie ends with Harun holding a "concert of peace" on a hill overlooking Sarajevo, playing his cello to hundreds of Sarajevans. Among the attendees are Henderson, Flynn and several children from the orphanage