West Side Story is a 2021 American musical romantic drama film directed and co-produced by Steven Spielberg from a screenplay by Tony Kushner. The second feature-length adaptation of the 1957 stage musical of the same name, it stars Ansel Elgort and Rachel Zegler in her film debut with Ariana DeBose, David Alvarez, Mike Faist, and Rita Moreno in supporting roles. Moreno, who starred in the 1961 film adaptation, also served as an executive producer alongside Kushner. The film features music composed by Leonard Bernstein with lyrics by Stephen Sondheim.
The film entered development in 2014 at 20th Century Fox; Kushner began writing the screenplay in 2017. In January 2018, Spielberg was hired and casting began that September. Justin Peck choreographed the dance sequences. Principal photography occurred in New York and New Jersey; filming began in July 2019 and ran for two months.
West Side Story had its world premiere at Jazz at Lincoln Center's Rose Theater in New York City on November 29, 2021, three days after Sondheim's death. The film was later theatrically distributed by 20th Century Studios in the United States on December 10, after being delayed a year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
The film received critical acclaim with praise for the performances of the cast, Spielberg's direction, the musical numbers, the visual style and the cinematography, with some critics deeming it superior to the 1961 film. It was named one of the top ten films of 2021 by the National Board of Review and the American Film Institute. Among its multiple awards and nominations, it received seven nominations at the 94th Academy Awards, including Best Picture, with DeBose winning Best Supporting Actress. However, the film was a box office bomb, grossing only $76 million against a $100 million production budget, and an estimated $300 million break even target.
Since its release, it has been cited as one of the best musical films of all time.


== Plot ==
In 1957, the Jets, a gang of white youths, fight the Sharks, a gang of Puerto Rican youths, for control of San Juan Hill on Manhattan's Upper West Side. NYPD Lieutenant Schrank tells the gangs that their conflict is pointless, since the neighborhood will soon be demolished to make way for Lincoln Center. The gangs are too proud to care, and Jet leader Riff proposes a rumble between the two gangs. Riff approaches his friend Tony, who is on parole, for help. Tony refuses, wishing to reform with the help of Valentina, the Puerto Rican owner of Doc's general store. Meanwhile, María, Shark leader Bernardo's sister, is betrothed to Bernardo's friend Chino but yearns for independence. At a neighborhood dance at the community center that night, Tony and María meet and fall in love. This angers Bernardo, who then agrees to Riff's terms for a rumble if Tony attends. After the dance, Tony confesses his love to María on her fire escape, and they promise to see each other the next day.
Bernardo and his girlfriend Anita argue about life in New York compared to Puerto Rico; Anita's belief in the American Dream contrasts with Bernardo's pessimism. Police officers interrogate the Jets about the rumble, but they deny any knowledge. During their date at the Cloisters, Tony reveals to María that his year-long imprisonment for nearly beating a rival gang member to death had scared him into reforming. María makes Tony promise to stop the rumble, and they pledge their love to one another. Tony tries to convince Riff to call off the rumble by stealing his newly bought gun, but the Jets steal it back, with Riff reasserting that the rumble will happen as scheduled. Schrank orders Sergeant Krupke and other police officers to stop the rumble from occurring, but they are unsuccessful. 
At the rumble, Tony attempts to intervene and explains himself to Bernardo, who uses his boxing skills to moderately injure Tony. However, Tony refuses to fight until Bernardo appears to go after Riff. Tony punches Bernardo several times but decide