What Lies Beneath is a 2000 American supernatural horror film directed by Robert Zemeckis from a screenplay written by Clark Gregg, based on a story by Sarah Kernochan and Gregg. It stars Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer, with Diana Scarwid, Joe Morton, James Remar and Miranda Otto appearing in supporting roles. It was the first film released by Zemeckis' production company, ImageMovers. The original film score was composed by Alan Silvestri.
What Lies Beneath was theatrically released on July 21, 2000, by DreamWorks Pictures and 20th Century Fox. While it received generally mixed reviews from critics, who praised Pfeiffer's performance while criticizing the screenplay, the film was a box-office success, grossing $291.4 million worldwide against a production budget of $100 million, becoming the tenth highest-grossing film of the year.
What Lies Beneath was nominated for the Saturn Award for Best Horror Film at the 27th Saturn Awards, in addition to nominations for Zemeckis and Pfeiffer for Best Director and Best Actress, respectively. At the 7th Blockbuster Entertainment Awards, Ford and Pfeiffer won Favorite Actor – Suspense and Favorite Actress – Suspense, and Scarwid was nominated for Favorite Supporting Actress – Suspense.


== Plot ==
Former cellist Claire Spencer and her husband Norman, an accomplished scientist and professor, live a quiet life at their lakeside home in Vermont. Their relationship is strained, particularly after Claire's daughter, Caitlin, leaves for college. Claire notices their new neighbors, Mary and Warren Feur, have a volatile relationship and, after Mary is unseen for several days, suspects Warren may have killed her.
Claire believes she sees a woman's body in the lake, and senses an unseen presence in the house. A framed article about Norman falls off his desk and shatters, leading Claire to discover an odd key inside a vent. She finds her bathtub mysteriously filled, and sees another woman's reflection in the water. Confiding in a psychiatrist, Claire and her mystic friend, Jody, hold a failed séance. She finds the bathtub filled again with the message "You know" written on the steamy mirror, while her computer inexplicably types the initials "MEF".
Convinced she is haunted by Mary's ghost, Claire confronts Warren, but Mary is alive and well, explaining that she went to stay with her mother in Providence after a fight with Warren. On the back of Norman's article, Claire finds a story about a missing woman named Madison Elizabeth Frank — "MEF". She tracks down Madison's mother and visits her daughter's bedroom, where she steals a lock of Madison's hair and notices a photo of her wearing an unusual necklace.
Performing a ritual from a book, Claire attempts to conjure Madison. Seemingly possessed by her spirit, she aggressively seduces Norman, shocking him by speaking as Madison until she drops the lock of hair. Becoming herself again, Claire recalls a repressed memory about Norman's affair with a student, Madison, which he admits happened during a rough patch in their marriage. Claire leaves to spend the night with Jody, who reveals that a year earlier, she saw Norman arguing with a woman at a café in Adamant, a nearby town.
Returning home, Claire finds Norman unconscious in the tub, which he assures her was an accident and not a suicide attempt. He tells her that an unstable Madison confronted him at home when he ended their affair, but denies killing her. Standing on the dock with Madison's hair, Claire is pulled into the lake by an unseen force, spotting a jewelry box matching Madison's necklace. Norman pulls her to safety, and together they burn the lock of hair.
Claire's suspicions return when Norman claims not to know the café in Adamant, where she sees the same necklace and jewelry box at a nearby shop. Recovering the box from the lake and unlocking it with the key from Norman's office, she finds Madison's necklace inside. She confronts Norman, who says that he came home to find Madison h