What Ever Happened to Baby Jane? is an American psychological horror novel by Henry Farrell published in 1960 by Rinehart & Company. The novel has earned a cult following, and has been adapted for the screen twice, in 1962 and 1991.


== Plot ==
This Gothic story deals with two sisters, Jane and Blanche Hudson, who are living alone together in a decaying Hollywood mansion. A former child star of early vaudeville known as "Baby Jane", Jane was doted upon by her father due to her success on the stage while Blanche lived in her shadow, neglected. However, their roles were reversed after the death of their parents; both children moved to Los Angeles to live with an aunt. Blanche was favored by directors for her blonde hair and regal beauty, and finally decided to pursue a successful film career. Blanche became a star, while a string of flops cost Jane her fame and popularity. Blanche managed to keep her sister's career alive by having a clause in her contract stipulating that Jane have a role in every film in which Blanche appeared, but these were always minor parts that relegated Jane to the same neglect Blanche had suffered.
The story then shifts to the present, where Jane, who still dresses as if she were 10 years old, and Blanche, disabled after a mysterious car accident, are now aging spinsters living in Blanche's crumbling estate. Jane resents how her career has been all but forgotten compared to Blanche's (who became more famous than she ever was, and who is now being remembered because of a revival of her films on television), and hates having to cook, clean and care for her sister. Although stuck upstairs in her bedroom, Blanche has managed to keep her good looks while Jane's appearance is ravaged by years of alcoholism.
Blanche, whose only other contact with the outside world is Edna Stitt, the mansion's cleaning woman, and the telephone conversations she occasionally has with her doctor and attorney, realizes that Jane is becoming increasingly unstable. She calls her lawyer and tells him that she is planning to sell the house. Jane, who eavesdrops on her sister's calls, believes that Blanche intends to have her committed to a mental hospital. Blanche becomes aware of her sister's sinister mood swings and tries to explain her decision, but Jane simply ignores her. Soon, Jane begins to exhibit signs of insanity. She removes the phone from Blanche's room and makes her afraid to eat by killing and cooking her pet bird, and later, a large rat from the cellar. In a drunken daze, Jane decides to resurrect her old Baby Jane stage act, reasoning that Fanny Brice had success with Baby Snooks. She hires Edwin Flagg, an accompanist, through a help wanted ad.
As reality topples crazily into eerie fantasy, Jane begins to abuse her sister with monstrous cruelty and embezzles her money to buy liquor and finance her comeback. Edna becomes uneasy when she is unable to reach Blanche on the phone and Jane refuses to let her clean her sister's room. Opening the door to find Blanche tied to the bed with her mouth taped shut, she tries to help, but Jane sneaks up and kills Edna with a hammer. That night, Jane dumps the body. A day or two later, police officers ask questions to Jane about Edna's disappearance. Jane goes into a panic, grabs her barely conscious sister, and heads for the location of some of her happier childhood memories: the beach where she and her father used to practice her song-and-dance routine while crowds of onlookers watched. Jane plays in the sand, and Blanche lies weak and on the verge of death from starvation and abuse.
Realizing that she may be dying, Blanche reveals to Jane that it was she, not Jane, who was responsible for paralyzing her. After Jane humiliated Blanche at a party years earlier, her sister tried to run her over before Jane got out of the way. The car then slammed into a metal gate, snapping Blanche's spine. She managed to crawl out of the car to the gates, and Jane, frightened and drunk, hid inside t