Where the Heart Is is a 2000 American romantic drama film directed by Matt Williams and starring Natalie Portman, Stockard Channing, Ashley Judd, and Joan Cusack with supporting roles by James Frain, Dylan Bruno, Keith David, and Sally Field. The screenplay, written by Lowell Ganz and Babaloo Mandel, is based on the best-selling 1995 novel of the same name by Billie Letts. The film follows five years in the life of Novalee Nation, a pregnant 17-year-old who is abandoned by her boyfriend at a Walmart in a small Oklahoma town. She secretly moves into the store, where she eventually gives birth to her baby, which attracts media attention. With the help of friends, she makes a new life for herself in the town.


== Plot ==
Novalee Nation (Natalie Portman)—a 17-year-old with a seven-month pregnancy and an aversion to the 
number 5—is abandoned by her boyfriend Willy Jack Pickens (Dylan Bruno) at a Walmart store in Sequoyah, Oklahoma when they stop to buy shoes. While stranded, she befriends Thelma "Sister" Husband (Stockard Channing), who presents her with a buckeye tree; and local photographer Moses Whitecotton (Keith David), who advises her to give her baby a strong name. Novalee also becomes acquainted with surly librarian Forney Hull (James Frain) who cares for his mentally and physically unwell sister Mary Elizabeth (Margaret Hoard). During a thunderstorm, Novalee, who has been living undetected inside the Walmart, goes into labour. Forney, now in awe of Novalee, smashes through the window to help deliver the child, whom Novalee names Americus. Novalee instantly becomes a media darling and is befriended by local nurse Lexie Coop (Ashley Judd). Her estranged mother Mama Lil (Sally Field) visits after seeing her daughter on television, but disappears with the money donated by well-wishers, after which Sister Husband offers to take in both Novalee and Americus. 
Novalee trains as a photographer under Moses' mentorship while working at Walmart. A tornado blows through Sequoyah and Sister Husband is killed, but Novalee discovers she is the beneficiary of Sister's estate, and builds a new home for herself and Americus. Meanwhile, Willy Jack, who had continued his trip to California, is sent to prison for picking up a minor carrying stolen goods. He writes a song, and upon release travels to Nashville, where he teams with cranky music agent Ruth Meyers (Joan Cusack) who gives him a makeover and the stage name "Billy Shadow." Novalee arrives in Las Vegas to accept a photo contest award after submitting an image of Americus—who had previously survived an abduction attempt—and the still-standing buckeye tree amidst the damage from the storm. Simultaneously, Willy Jack—who happens to be in the same hotel—is informed that his old cellmate is suing him for plagiarism, and Ruth drops Willy Jack as a client for disloyalty. Upon her return to Sequoyah, Novalee discovers Lexie has been attacked by a new love interest who molested her two eldest children. Lexie's injuries hinder her nursing job, and since she is unable pay rent she and her children move in with Novalee and Americus. 
Mary Elizabeth later passes away, and when Forney does not appear at the funeral, Novalee finds him in a hotel and comforts him. They act on the feelings they have long denied and spend the night together. Forney confesses his love, but Novalee confides in Lexie she has never considered herself good enough for Forney and is confused about her feelings for him. Believing his life would be a dead end with her, Novalee lies to Forney, claiming she does not love him, leaving Forney heartbroken. Novalee learns that Lexie is seeing Ernie (Bob Coonrod), an exterminator who lacks the physical attributes she prefers, but whom she fell in love with after learning he gave his ex-wife his restored 1967 Chevy Camaro in exchange for custody of his stepdaughter whom he adopted as his own. The couple marry, and Lexie informs Novalee that she is pregnant. 
Severely depressed at his