White Man's Burden is a 1995 American drama film about racism, set in an alternative America where the social and economic positions of black people and white people are reversed. The film was written and directed by Desmond Nakano. The film revolves around Louis Pinnock (John Travolta), a white factory worker, who kidnaps Thaddeus Thomas (Harry Belafonte), a black factory owner, for firing Pinnock over a perceived slight.
The title is a well-known phrase inspired by the famous poem of the same title by Rudyard Kipling.


== Plot ==
At dinner, wealthy black CEO Thaddeus Thomas discusses white people and claims they are "genetically inferior" because their children grow up without fathers.
Trying to improve himself, white candy factory worker Louis Pinnock offers to deliver a package to Thomas after his shift. Pinnock is let into the property by a white servant at the security gate point in front of the Thomas residence and accidentally views Thomas's wife naked through the window. Thomas notices and complains to the vice-president of the factory, during a dinner engagement at his house, that he would prefer a different delivery man instead of a "peeping Tom". Although Thomas does not suggest any form of punishment towards Pinnock, the VP "gets the message" and immediately fires Pinnock. Pinnock returns to the Thomas residence in an attempt to discuss the misunderstanding with Thomas, but because Thomas is in an important business meeting, he refuses and sends a message to Pinnock that he apologizes, but there is nothing that he can do to help him. Pinnock begs for two minutes of his time, but is turned away.
Without any education, connections or advanced skills, Pinnock finds difficulty getting a job and is unable to support his family. The Pinnock family are awakened one early morning by the police and the landlord to enforce eviction; the family struggles to gather their important belongings as they vacate the premises. Pinnock's mother-in-law scolds him for failing as a man; she says there is not enough room for him at her house where his wife and two children are going.
Pinnock's truck breaks down and he is forced to walk. At night, Pinnock is apprehended by the police who mistake him for a bank robber because "he fit the description". The people inside a bar come outside and shout at the police, demanding that they leave Pinnock alone. People gathering outside the bar begin throwing bottles at the police. Pinnock is beaten by the police but they are chased away by the angry mob.
In a quest for justice, Pinnock kidnaps Thomas at gunpoint and demands a large sum of money that he believes is owed him for losing his job. After multiple failed attempts to withdraw the money, Pinnock holds Thomas hostage for the weekend and takes him through the ghetto where he lives. Thomas, however, remains unsympathetic to Pinnock and calls him a failure who blames the world for his problems. But Pinnock takes Thomas through the ghetto anyway into an abandoned building. Thomas alternates between enjoying some of the staples of ghetto life and having his eyes open to this world's racism. Thomas has a heart attack, and Pinnock performs CPR on Thomas who does not respond. Pinnock shoots a store's windows to get the police's attention to aid Thomas but is mistakenly shot and killed because the police assume he is armed.
The chastened CEO visits Pinnock's grieving widow and offers her the money that Louis requested. She refuses it, and when Thomas awkwardly asks if she wants more, she bluntly says "And how much do you think would be enough?" and closes the door in his face.


== Cast ==
John Travolta as Louis Pinnock
Harry Belafonte as Thaddeus Thomas
Kelly Lynch as Marsha Pinnock
Margaret Avery as Megan Thomas
Tom Bower as Stanley
Andrew Lawrence as Donnie Pinnock
Bumper Robinson as Martin
Tom Wright as Lionel
Sheryl Lee Ralph as  Roberta
Judith Drake as Dorothy
Robert Gossett as John
Wesley Thompson as Williams
Tom Nolan as Johansson
Willie C. 