Soon-Yi Previn (; née Oh Soon-hee, Korean: 오순희; born c. October 8, 1970) is the adopted daughter of actress Mia Farrow and musician André Previn. She is married to filmmaker Woody Allen, with whom she has two children. 
According to Soon-Yi Previn and Allen, they began their relationship after he ended his 10-year affiliation with Farrow, when Previn was 21. In 1992, their relationship became news.


== Early life and education ==
Soon-Yi Previn (original name Oh Soon-hee) was born in South Korea. She was found abandoned in Seoul on February 12, 1976, and placed temporarily in Maria's House, a local institution. When authorities failed to locate her parents or relatives, they placed her in St. Paul's Orphanage. The Seoul Family Court established a Family Census Register (legal birth document) on her behalf on December 28, 1976, with an official birth date of October 8, 1970. A bone scan at the time of her adoption put her age at between five and seven. Previn has said that as a young child, she lived on the streets and got food out of trash cans.
In 1978, Mia Farrow and her then husband, André Previn, adopted Soon-Yi and took her to the United States. At the time, U.S. law allowed two visas per family for international adoption, and the couple had already adopted Vietnamese infants Lark Song Previn and Summer "Daisy" Song Previn. Farrow asked her friends Rose and William Styron to have U.S. Representative Michael Harrington sponsor a private bill to enable the girl's adoption to the United States. This bill, HR 1552, was passed as Private Law 95-37 on May 15, 1978, paving Soon-Yi's way to immigrate to the United States. 
Just after the adoption, Farrow wrote to Nancy Sinatra about Soon-Yi, "Now she speaks English and is learning to read, write, play piano, dance ballet & ride a horse". Farrow later said that at the time of her adoption, Soon-Yi had learning disabilities. Rose Styron is Soon-Yi's godmother.
Farrow's marriage to André Previn ended in 1979. In 1980, Farrow began a long-term relationship with filmmaker Woody Allen. Allen later adopted two of Farrow's adopted children: Dylan Farrow and Moses Farrow. In 1987, Mia Farrow gave birth to Ronan Farrow, who is Allen's biological son.
Soon-Yi Previn graduated from Marymount School of New York in 1991. After a summer as a sales associate at Bergdorf Goodman, she began her freshman year as a commuter student at Drew University in Madison, New Jersey, in September 1991.
Previn graduated from Drew University and earned a master's degree in special education from Columbia University.
During her teens, Previn made an uncredited appearance in Allen's Hannah and Her Sisters (1986), which starred Farrow. She appeared as an extra in Paul Mazursky's 1991 film Scenes from a Mall, which starred Allen. She also appeared alongside Allen in the documentary Wild Man Blues (1997).
In 1992, Previn said that Farrow had physically abused her. In 2018, Previn's brother Moses Farrow has said that he too was physically abused by Farrow.


== Relationship with Woody Allen ==
Previn has said that Allen "was never any kind of father figure [to her]" and that she "never had any dealings with him" during her childhood. The findings of the judicial investigation carried out during the custody trial between Farrow and Allen determined that before 1990, Previn and Allen had rarely spoken to each other. According to Previn, her first friendly interaction with Allen took place when she was injured playing soccer during 11th grade and Allen offered to transport her to school. Following her injury, in 1990, Previn began attending New York Knicks basketball games with Allen.
In January 1992, Farrow found nude photographs of Previn in Allen's home. Allen, then 56, told Farrow that he had taken the photos the day before, approximately two weeks after he and Previn first had sex. Farrow contends that she broke off her relationship with Allen in 1992 following her discovery of the affair. Previn and Allen dispute