Willow Camille Reign Smith (born October 31, 2000), also known mononymously as Willow, is an American singer. The daughter of Will Smith and Jada Pinkett Smith, she has received various accolades, including a Young Artist Award, an NAACP Image Award, a BET Award, and nominations for two Daytime Emmy Awards and a MTV Video Music Award.
Smith made her acting debut in the 2007 film I Am Legend alongside her father, and later appeared in Kit Kittredge: An American Girl with Abigail Breslin. She embarked on a musical career with her 2010 single "Whip My Hair", which peaked at number 11 on the Billboard Hot 100. Prior, Smith signed with her mentor, Jay-Z's record label Roc Nation, becoming the label's youngest artist. The following year, she released the singles "21st Century Girl" and "Fireball" (featuring Nicki Minaj).
Smith's debut studio album, Ardipithecus (2015) explored neo soul. It spawned the single "Wait a Minute!", which received double platinum certification by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). Her second and third albums, The 1st (2017) and Willow (2019) followed after and were both met with positive reception. Her fourth album, Lately I Feel Everything (2021), marked her first entry on the Billboard 200 and spawned the single "Transparent Soul", which received gold certification by the RIAA. Later that year, she earned her second top 40 entry on the Billboard Hot 100 with her single "Meet Me at Our Spot", which she released as part of the duo The Anxiety with Tyler Cole. Smith's fifth album, Coping Mechanism (2022) marked her final release with Roc Nation, after which she signed with gamma. to release her sixth album, empathogen (2024).
In 2018, Smith began co-hosting the Facebook Watch talk show Red Table Talk with her mother Jada and grandmother Adrienne, which has earned two Daytime Emmy Award nominations.


== Early life ==
Smith was born on October 31, 2000, in Los Angeles, California. She is the daughter of the actress-musician Jada Pinkett Smith and actor-musician Will Smith. She has two older siblings: her brother Jaden Smith, an actor and musician, and her half-brother Willard Carroll "Trey" Smith III, an actor and DJ. Smith and her siblings are youth ambassadors for Project Zambi, which, in conjunction with Hasbro, provides assistance for Zambian children orphaned by AIDS.
Smith attended Sierra Canyon School in Los Angeles.


== Career ==


=== 2007–2013: Acting and music endeavors ===
Smith made her acting debut in I Am Legend alongside her father. Her next film, Kit Kittredge: An American Girl, was released on July 2, 2008. In 2008, she voiced the character of young Gloria the hippo in Madagascar: Escape 2 Africa, alongside her mother as Gloria the hippo.
In June 2009, Smith's mother Jada Pinkett Smith announced in an interview on Lopez Tonight that Smith would be releasing an album. Smith then released her first single, "Whip My Hair", which went platinum in the US and peaked at number 11 on the Billboard Hot 100. In the UK, the single peaked at number two. Its video was nominated for Video of the Year at the BET Awards of 2011. Smith soon after announced her next single, "21st Century Girl". After she performed the song on The Oprah Winfrey Show, she released it the next day on February 3, 2011. The video was released March 9, 2011. On January 20, 2011, Will Smith announced he was planning to produce a contemporary remake of the Broadway musical  Annie starring Smith in the title role. However, Smith was deemed too old and the title role was given to Quvenzhané Wallis in February 2013.
On October 6, 2011, "Fireball", a collaboration between Smith and rapper Nicki Minaj, was released. "Fireball" was a commercial failure, failing to chart in any type of music market, except the US R&B chart, charting at 121. It was her first song to miss the Billboard Hot 100. Smith's producer announced that she were almost finished working on her debut album, and that it would be done soon. He also said