With Byrd at the South Pole (1930) is a sound part-talkie documentary film about Rear Admiral Richard E. Byrd and his 1st quest to the South Pole beginning at the Little America-Exploration Base. In addition to sequences with audible dialogue or talking sequences, the film features a synchronized musical score and sound effects along with English intertitles. The dialogue sequences consist mainly of narration that is read aloud by Floyd Gibbons. The film won at the 3rd Academy Awards for Best Cinematography.
The film was the first documentary to win any Oscar and the only one to win cinematography.


== Cast ==
Richard E. Byrd...Himself (Expedition Commander) (as Rear Admiral Richard E. Byrd)
Claire Alexander...Supply Officer
Bernt Balchen...Aviation Pilot
George H. Black...Seaman and Tractor Man
Quin A. Blackburn...Topographer
Kennard F. Bubier...Aviation Mechanic
Christopher Braathen...Seaman, Ski Man
Jacob Bursey...Seaman, Dog Driver
Arnold H. Clark...Fireman
Francis D. Coman...Medical Officer (as Dr. Francis D. Coman)
Frederick E. Crockett...Dog Driver
Victor H. Czegka...Machinist
Frank T. Davies...Physicist
Joe de Ganahl...Mate
E.J. Demas...Aviation Mechanic
James A. Feury...Fireman
Edward E. Goodale...Dog Driver
Charles F. Gould...Carpenter
Lawrence M. Gould...Geologist and Geographer/2nd Comm. (as Dr. Lawrence M. Gould)
William C. Haines...Meteorologist
Malcolm P. Hanson...Radio Operator
Henry R. Harrison Jr.Aerologist
Harold June...Aviation Pilot
Charles E. Lofgren...  Personnel Officer
Howard F. Mason...Radio Operator
Ashley C. McKinley...Aerial Photographer (as Captain Ashley C. McKinley)
Thomas B. Mulroy...Chief Engineer
John S. O'Brien...Surveyor
Russell Owen...Newspaper Correspondent
Alton U. Parker...Aviation Pilot (as Captain Alton U. Parker)
Carl O. Petersen...Radio Operator
Martin Rønne...Sailmaker
Benjamin Roth...Aviation Mechanic
Paul A. Siple...Boy Scout
Dean Smith...Aviation Pilot
Sverre Strom...Second Officer
George W. Tennant...Cook
George A. Thorne Jr.Seaman, Ski Man, Surveyor
Norman D. Vaughan...Dog Driver
Arthur Treadwell Walden...In Charge of Dogs
Floyd Gibbons...Narrator


== DVD release ==
With Byrd at the South Pole was released on DVD in February 2000. It is part of a Milestone collection that is very limited.


== See also ==
The Lost Zeppelin (1929)


== References ==


== External links ==
With Byrd at the South Pole at IMDb 
With Byrd at the South Pole at the TCM Movie Database
With Byrd At The South Pole Movie Scrapbook at Dartmouth College Library