Woman on Top is a 2000 American fantasy romantic comedy film directed by Fina Torres, written by Vera Blasi, and starring Penélope Cruz, Murilo Benício, Harold Perrineau Jr., and Mark Feuerstein.
Chef Isabella Oliveira leaves her husband Toninho in Brazil to try to start over at her friend Monica's in San Francisco, as he committed adultery and doesn't listen to her needs. She gets her own cooking show, then he follows to win her back. 
The film was released in the United States on September 20, 2000 and has a 5.3 approval rating on IMDB.


== Plot ==
All her life, Isabella has suffered from motion sickness. Because of her illness, she could not play much with other children. She stayed at home and learned how to cook, becoming a renowned chef as an adult. She fell in love with Toninho and they opened a restaurant together, with Isabella stuck in the kitchen and Toninho out front taking the credit.
The only way for Isabella to control her motion sickness is to control her motion. She must drive rather than ride in a car, take stairs instead of elevators, lead while dancing, and be on top during coitus. Toninho, feeling emasculated and resentful of this, has an affair with a neighbor. Isabella flees Brazil to San Francisco to stay with her Afro-Brazilian transsexual friend Monica, who spent her early years with her in the fishing community of Salvador. 
Despite old job offers from a number of restaurants, Isabella is unable to find a job until she takes over a cooking class at a local culinary school. Cliff, a neighbor and local television producer, smells her cooking, follows her to class, and signs her to host a live cooking show, Passion Food. She makes Monica her assistant on the show. Isabella performs a sacrifice to Yemanja, a Brazilian sea goddess, to harden her heart and make her never love Toninho again.
Back in Brazil, Toninho's restaurant is floundering without Isabella. Toninho curses Yemanja, and the fishermen stop catching any fish. He figures out that she has gone to Monica's and follows her to San Francisco. He spots her on television and tracks her to the studio. 
With a group of local street musicians, Toninho sneaks into the studio and onto the set, serenading Isabella on the live broadcast. Cliff hires him and the musicians for the show over Isabella's objections. She tries to pursue a relationship with Cliff but Toninho continually tries to win her back.
Network executives offer to syndicate Isabella's show nationally, but only after demanding a number of changes, including firing Monica. With the restaurant closed, Toninho apologizes to Yemanja, but tells her to "stay out of [his] business" with Isabella. He quits the show and makes another attempt to win her back. Isabella goes after him but has to take an elevator, and her motion sickness slows her enough to allow Toninho to depart. She also quits the show rather than accept the changes demanded by the network.
Isabella, with her love still gone but now wanting it returned, tries to cook another sacrifice to Yemanja but finds her cooking talent is gone. Undaunted, Monica substitutes some boxed macaroni and cheese. Isabella makes the second offering but nearly drowns. She has a vision of Yemanja, who rejects her new offering.
Isabella goes to collect her things from the television studio. Toninho, sent by Monica, shows up and suggests they cook something together. As they cook, the fish return to the village waters and Yemanja returns Isabella's original offering along with her love for Toninho.
Toninho and Isabella later operate a new restaurant as equal partners and with Cliff and Monica as a couple.


== Cast ==
Penélope Cruz as Isabella Oliveira
Analu De Castro as 2-year-old Isabella
Thais De Sá Curvelo as 5-year-old Isabella
Murilo Benício as Toninho Oliveira
Harold Perrineau Jr. as Monica Jones
Mark Feuerstein as Cliff Lloyd
John De Lancie as Alex Reeves
Wagner Moura as Rafi
Ana Gasteyer as Claudia Hunter
Anne Ramsay as TV director
Eliana Guttman as