Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown is a musical with music and lyrics by David Yazbek and a book by Jeffrey Lane. Based on the Pedro Almodóvar film Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown (1988), the musical tells the tale of a group of women in late 20th-century Madrid whose relationships with men lead to a tumultuous 48 hours of love, confusion and passion.
The original Broadway production opened at the Belasco Theatre in October 2010, but received mostly negative reviews and closed in January 2011 after 30 previews and 69 performances. It was nominated for 3 Tony Awards and 6 Drama Desk Awards. With new direction and production design, the musical transferred to London and opened at the Playhouse Theatre in January 2015, where it received mixed to positive reviews and 2 Laurence Olivier Award nominations. It closed in May of that year.


== Productions ==
In October 2009, a workshop reading for the Lincoln Center Theater production of the musical was held, featuring Salma Hayek, Jessica Biel, Matthew Morrison and Paulo Szot. Patti LuPone, Tom Hewitt, and Sherie Rene Scott were in workshop readings of the musical in March 2010, with direction by Bartlett Sher.
Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown opened on Broadway at the Belasco Theatre on November 4, 2010, with previews starting October 8. The musical starred Sherie Rene Scott, Patti LuPone, Brian Stokes Mitchell, and Laura Benanti, with direction by Bartlett Sher. Justin Guarini, the runner up from the first season of American Idol, made his Broadway debut as Carlos. The production was a limited engagement that was scheduled to end on January 23, 2011, but due to low grosses and ticket sales, closed early on January 2, 2011. At the time of closing, the show had played 30 previews and 69 regular performances.
The Broadway production featured scenic design by Michael Yeargan, costume design by Catherine Zuber, lighting design by Brian MacDevitt, projection design by Sven Ortel and sound design by Scott Lehrer. Bartlett Sher directed; Christopher Gattelli served as choreographer. Comprising the rest of the creative team was musical director James Abbott and orchestrator Simon Hale. Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown was nominated for three 2011 Tony Awards, including the award for Best Original Score.
A West End production, also directed by Bartlett Sher and starring Tamsin Greig, Jérôme Pradon, Haydn Gwynne, Anna Skellern, and Willemijn Verkaik opened at the Playhouse Theatre on January 12, 2015 for a 20-week run. and subsequently extended its run to 22 August 2015, but on April 23, 2015, it was announced that the production would close on May 23, 2015. Greig and Gwynne were nominated for Best Actress in a Musical and Best Actress in a Supporting Role in a Musical respectively at the 2015 Laurence Olivier Awards.
A production was staged by the Royal Welsh College of Music and Drama in 2023 at the Sherman Theatre, with direction by Eva Sampson.
In 2024,  Florida International University produced Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown at The Wertheim, under the direction of Olivia de Guzman, to be the premier offering of its new Musical Theater program. 


== Synopsis ==
Act I
Spain, 1987. In an answering machine, a lover's voice in the night asks – ‘Pepa? Pepa, are you there? Is there any good way to say goodbye...’ A woman startles awake and rushes to the phone, ‘Ivan? Ivan?’ She's too late, he's gone.
As day breaks, the city and its inhabitants come to life, and the ubiquitous and philosophical Mambo Taxi Driver sings of  a place and time of joy and passion, a world where an entire life can be rewritten in one day ("Madrid"). Pepa, a working actress and singer, arrives at a film recording studio, where she is scheduled to dub a duet with Ivan. Still reeling from his message and hoping to get some answers, she is disappointed to learn he has already laid down his vocal tracks and gone. As she sings to his recorded voice, we hear her thoughts, the con