The Wood is a 1999 American coming-of-age comedy drama film directed by Rick Famuyiwa and starring Omar Epps, Richard T. Jones and Taye Diggs. It was written by Famuyiwa and Todd Boyd.


== Plot ==
Roland is getting married and is currently missing. Slim, who scoffs at the idea of marriage, is furious at Roland for disappearing. The story flashes back to Mike as a youth when he first encounters Roland and Slim, his first real crush on a girl named Alicia, and the three young men's misadventures as teenagers growing up in 1980s Inglewood, California (aka "the Wood").
Shy and awkward, Mike is quickly befriended by Slim and Roland. On a dare from Slim and Roland, Mike reluctantly grabs Alicia's butt, leading to a physical altercation with her older brother and Blood gang member, Stacey. While he is beaten up, Mike earns Stacey's private respect for having courage to fight back.
Meanwhile, in present day, Mike and Slim get a call from Tanya, Roland's ex, saying that Roland is at her house, extremely drunk. When they arrive, they argue with Roland for putting his relationship at risk, as the wedding is just hours away.
Flashing back to the 1980s, the boys are on their way to the first dance of the year, stopping at a convenience store that gets robbed by Stacey. Stacey recognizes the boys and offers them a ride to the dance. The group is nearly arrested after being pulled over for a broken tail light. Mike's quick thinking prevents one of the cops from finding Stacey's gun. They let them go when the cops respond to a call about the stick-up Stacey pulled earlier from him and his friend.
Impressed, Stacey begins a new friendship with Mike by apologizing for their prior run-in. However, he explains that he was protecting his sister and seeing how much Mike likes her, gives him advice on how to win her over. When they arrive at the dance, it is almost over, and Mike is able to secure a dance with Alicia and also get her number. Later, Mike and Alicia date for a time before breaking up and remaining friends.
In the present day, while reminiscing, Roland becomes sick and accidentally vomits on Slim and Mike. Now, the men only have an hour left before the wedding and they have to get cleaned up, so they take their clothes to the cleaners.
Mike, returning to their memories when they were juniors in high school, remembers them thinking about sex, ways to get it and making a lot of bets as to who has it first. Mike has a girlfriend and Alicia has a boyfriend. Despite both of them already being in a relationship with somebody else, one day Mike and Alicia walk to her house from the library talking about the homecoming dance.
They listen to "If This World Were Mine" on the radio, the song to which they had the first dance. Alicia and Mike begin getting intimate, but Alicia stops him and tells Mike to retrieve a condom from Stacey's room. Mike finds a condom in Stacey's room. Before leaving, he has to hide under his bed, so as not to get caught when Stacey and his girlfriend come home. After they leave, Mike goes back to Alicia's room and they have sex. Mike wins the bet, but he doesn't tell Roland and Slim out of respect for Alicia.
It is revealed in the present that after high school, Alicia and Mike went their separate ways with Alicia going to attend Columbia University in New York while Mike decided to stay home and attend The University of Southern California even though Roland reveals that Mike could have followed her as he did get accepted into New York University. The boys finally make it to the wedding and Roland apologizes to a furious Lisa for leaving her worried. Before the ceremony begins, Mike has a fond exchange with a now-grown Alicia while Roland and Lisa get married. Mike reminisces on the homecoming dance, declaring that he, Roland and Slim will be the boys from "the Wood".


== Cast ==
Omar Epps as Michael "Mike" Tarver, who narrates how he and his friends grew up together in "The Wood".
Sean Nelson as young Mike, a newcom