Wrongfully Accused is a 1998 satirical comedy film written, produced and directed by Pat Proft and starring Leslie Nielsen as a man who has been framed for murder and desperately attempts to expose the true culprits. The film is a parody of the 1993 film The Fugitive, and also parodies numerous other films. This was Richard Crenna's final film before his death in 2003.


== Plot ==
World-famous violinist Ryan Harrison is seen giving a concert. Afterwards, he goes to a party where he meets Hibbing Goodhue, a millionaire who sponsors Harrison's performances, as well as Goodhue's seductive wife Lauren and his possible mistress Cass Lake.
The next evening, he finds a note from Lauren in his car which summons him to the Goodhue residence. When he goes to the Goodhue mansion, he bumps into Sean Laughrea, who has just killed Goodhue (together with an unknown accomplice). A violent fight follows, during which Harrison discovers that Sean is missing an eye, an arm, and a leg, and he overhears the preparations for an operation with the codename "Hylander" before he is knocked out. When he wakes up, Harrison finds himself arrested and convicted for the murder of Goodhue. Desperate to prove his innocence, Harrison escapes from his prison transport following an accident. Lieutenant Fergus Falls arrives on the scene, takes charge, barks out orders and vows to do whatever it takes to capture the fugitive.
Harrison returns to the Goodhue mansion where he encounters Cass, who is trying to retrieve something from behind a portrait. She tells him she knows he is innocent and believes Lauren is the killer, but refuses to say anything to the police because Lauren is her sister. She provides him with a place to hide and helps him shake his pursuers, but Harrison's opportunities to rest are short and fleeting: Falls seems to find him wherever he goes, and Cass behaves suspiciously, increasing Harrison's doubts of whom to trust.
Harrison gradually begins to piece together the puzzle; he remembers that Sean was present at the party as the bartender and was given a great amount of money by Cass. He also finds that Cass is strangely interested in Sir Robert McKintyre, the Secretary-General of the United Nations. Eventually, after investigating Sean's disabilities in a limb replacement clinic, he discovers that Cass, Lauren and Sean are planning an assassination attempt on McKintyre. He manages to follow the group but is caught. Cass shoots Harrison but actually fakes his death, both because she has fallen in love with him and because she wants to stop the assassination, since she has found out that McKintyre is really her father. Goodhue has been murdered by Sean and Lauren because he had come to suspect that his wife was actually a terrorist and had only used him to further her goals.
At a Scottish festival, Harrison and Cass just barely manage to save McKintyre's life. They are cornered by Lauren, Sean and accomplices, but Fergus Falls and a SWAT team arrive just in the nick of time, arresting the terrorists. Falls officially tells Harrison that he was "wrongfully accused", clearing his name and acquitting him. In the last scene, Harrison and Cass are riding on the bow of a cruise ship (spoofing Titanic) and end up bumping their heads on a low bridge.


== Cast ==
Leslie Nielsen as Ryan Harrison
Richard Crenna as Lieutenant Fergus Falls
Kelly LeBrock as Lauren Goodhue
Melinda McGraw as Cass Lake
Michael York as Hibbing Goodhue
Sandra Bernhard as Dr. Fridley
Aaron Pearl as Sean Laughrea
Leslie Jones as Sergeant Tina Bagley
Ben Ratner as Sergeant Orono
Gerard Plunkett as Sir Robert McKintyre
Duncan Fraser as Sergeant MacDonald
John Walsh as John Walsh


== Release ==
Wrongfully Accused was released in Germany on July 23, 1998.


== Reception ==


=== Box office ===
The film opened on August 21, 1998, in 2,062 cinemas. On its opening weekend, it grossed USD $3,504,630 or approximately $1,700 per theatre. Wrongfully Accused's overall gross was $9,642,860.