The Year My Voice Broke is a 1987 Australian coming of age drama film written and directed by John Duigan and starring Noah Taylor, Loene Carmen and Ben Mendelsohn. Set in 1962 in the rural Southern Tablelands of New South Wales, it was the first in a projected trilogy of films centred on the experiences of an awkward Australian boy, based on the childhood of writer/director John Duigan. The film itself is a series of interconnected segments narrated by Danny who recollects how he and his best friend Freya grew apart over the course of one year. Although the trilogy never came to fruition, it was followed by a 1991 sequel, Flirting. The film was the recipient of the 1987 Australian Film Institute Award for Best Film, a prize which Flirting also won in 1990.


== Plot ==
In 1962 in rural New South Wales, Australia, Danny is a thin, socially awkward 15-year-old boy who has been best friends with Freya since childhood. Freya was adopted as a baby; as a result, she is the subject of town gossip and rumours about her possible biological parents. The two spend their days at their childhood hangout on the outskirts of town, experimenting with telepathy and hypnosis.
Danny has grown feelings for Freya, but unfortunately for him, Freya becomes attracted to Trevor, a high school rugby league star, larrikin and petty criminal who helps Danny with the school bullies. Danny begrudgingly befriends Trevor, and the trio discover an abandoned house that is rumoured to be haunted. The three teens spend a night in the house, with Trevor and Freya sleeping together while Danny is off in a corner, faking being asleep. The next day, Trevor steals a car for a joyride. He is arrested and sent to juvenile detention; during his time away, Freya reveals to Danny that she is pregnant. Danny offers to marry her and claim the child is his, but Freya refuses, saying that she does not want to marry anyone. Meanwhile, intrigued by a locket left to Freya by an elderly friend of theirs who recently died—engraved "SEA"—Danny begins to investigate the town's past, and discovers a lone cross in the cemetery bearing those initials, belonging to a "Sara Elizabeth Amery," who died days after Freya was born. Through inquiries with his parents, Danny learns that Sara was well known for her sexual promiscuity years ago, and that she was Freya's biological mother, who died trying to give birth by herself at the abandoned house.
Meanwhile, Trevor breaks out of detention, steals another car, and severely wounds a store clerk during an armed robbery. Trevor returns to town long enough to reunite with Freya at the abandoned house, where he learns of her pregnancy. The police arrive at the house, but Danny aids in Trevor's escape. The police then run Trevor's car off the road during the course of the pursuit, and Trevor dies the next day. Freya disappears, and later suffers a miscarriage and hypothermia until Danny finds her at the abandoned house and takes her to the hospital. Hesitantly, Danny reveals the identity of Freya's mother to her. Realising the stigma now hanging over her, Freya decides to leave on the night train for the city. At the station, Danny gives her his life's savings to support herself and sees her off—promising their friendship to one another and to keep in touch. Later, Danny travels to their favourite hangout spot and carves the names of Freya, Trevor and his own into a rock, as his adult self informs the audience that he never saw Freya again.


== Cast ==
Noah Taylor as Danny Embling
Loene Carmen as Freya Olson
Ben Mendelsohn as Trevor Leishman
Graeme Blundell as Nils Olson
Lynette Curran as Anne Olson
Anja Coleby as Gail Olson
Malcolm Robertson as Bruce Embling
Judi Farr as Sheila Embling
Bruce Spence as Jonah
Rob Carlton as Pierdon
Nick Tate as Sergeant Pierce
Kevin Manser as Mr Keith
Harold Hopkins as Tom Alcock
Colleen Clifford as Gran Olson
Malcolm Kennard as School Kid (uncredited)


== Production ==
John Duigan wrote a script based on his exp