You've Got Mail is a 1998 American romantic comedy-drama film directed by Nora Ephron and starring Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan. Inspired by the 1937 Hungarian play Parfumerie by Miklós László (which had earlier been adapted in 1940 as The Shop Around the Corner and in 1949 as In the Good Old Summertime), the screenplay was co-written by Nora and Delia Ephron. It tells the story of two people in an online romance who are unaware they are also business rivals. It marked the third pairing of Hanks and Ryan, who previously appeared together in Joe Versus the Volcano (1990) and Sleepless in Seattle (1993), the latter directed by Ephron. The film takes its name from the greeting AOL users receive when they get a new email. 


== Plot ==
On Manhattan's Upper West Side, Kathleen Kelly runs The Shop Around the Corner, an independent children's bookstore she inherited from her mother. She is in a relationship with Frank Navasky, a left-leaning columnist for The New York Observer. While Frank is devoted to his typewriter, Kathleen prefers her laptop and using her AOL email account, under the screen name "Shopgirl", to exchange messages with "NY152", whom she first met in a chatroom. As they have agreed not to share specifics about their personal lives, she knows nothing about him other than the name of his dog, Brinkley.
"NY152" is the screen name of Joe Fox, whose family runs Fox Books, a major chain of bookstores. He is overseeing the opening of a new storefront with help from his best friend, branch manager Kevin, just a few blocks from The Shop Around the Corner. Kathleen's three shop assistants—George, Aunt Birdie, and Christina—worry the new Fox Books will hurt business, but Kathleen dismisses their concerns.
Following an outing with his 11-year-old aunt Annabel and 4-year-old half-brother Matthew, Joe stops at Kathleen's store for a storytime event. Joe and Kathleen meet and have a pleasant conversation, but when she expresses disdain for the new Fox Books store, he withholds his last name and leaves abruptly with the children. Later that week, Kathleen and Joe meet again at a book publishing party, and she learns his true identity. She accuses him of deception and spying, while he belittles her store, earning each other's hostility.
"Shopgirl" writes to "NY152" asking for business advice, and he urges her to fight back. Frank pens a column in support of The Shop Around the Corner that draws widespread attention, leading to talk show appearances, news coverage, and picketing outside Fox Books. Joe is aggravated by the negative publicity, but his father assures him everything will blow over once the new store opens.
"Shopgirl" and "NY152" decide to meet at a café. Joe is dismayed to find that his penpal is actually his professional nemesis. Initially planning to leave, he changes his mind and joins her at the table without revealing his online identity. They clash once again, and Kathleen cruelly insults him, causing Joe to leave in distress. Later that night, he receives an email from "Shopgirl", sharing that she finally stood up to an unpleasant person but now feels terrible for doing so. "NY152" apologizes for standing her up and assures her anything she said was likely deserved.
Despite efforts to save The Shop Around the Corner, business steadily declines, while the newly opened Fox Books location thrives. Kathleen makes the difficult decision to close. Later, she and Frank amicably end their relationship. Kathleen takes a break to figure out her next move, ultimately taking inspiration from her correspondence with "NY152" to write children's books. Meanwhile, Joe realizes he has feelings for Kathleen and slowly builds a face-to-face relationship with her, still keeping his online identity a secret.
Eventually, "NY152" arranges another meeting with "Shopgirl". Right before she is to meet her online friend, Joe confesses his feelings, imploring her to forgive him for their past animosity. Kathleen becomes emotional, hinting that she