The movie 'Life Less Ordinary, A': A couple of angels, O'Reilly and Jackson, are sent to Earth to make sure that their next supervised love-connection succeeds. They follow Celine, a spoiled rich girl who has just accidentally shot a suitor and, due to a misunderstanding, is kidnapped by janitor Robert. Although Celine quickly frees herself, she stays with Robert for thrills. O'Reilly and Jackson pursue, hoping to unite the prospective lovers.. What's the genres it may belong to? 
Life Less Ordinary, A:: Romance,Thriller
The movie 'Star Trek: Generations': Captain Jean-Luc Picard and the crew of the Enterprise-D find themselves at odds with the renegade scientist Soran who is destroying entire star systems. Only one man can help Picard stop Soran's scheme...and he's been dead for seventy-eight years.. What's the genres it may belong to? 
Star Trek: Generations:: Action,Adventure,Sci-Fi
The movie 'Day of the Beast, The (El día de la bestia)': The story revolves around a Basque Roman Catholic priest dedicated to committing as many sins as possible, a death metal salesman from Carabanchel, and the Italian host of a TV show on the occult. These go on a literal "trip" through Christmas-time Madrid to hunt for and prevent the reincarnation of the Antichrist.. What's the genres it may belong to? 
Day of the Beast, The (El día de la bestia):: Comedy,Horror,Thriller
The movie 'Flying Tigers': Jim Gordon commands a unit of the famed Flying Tigers, the American Volunteer Group which fought the Japanese in China before America's entry into World War II. Gordon must send his outnumbered band of fighter pilots out against overwhelming odds while juggling the disparate personalities and problems of his fellow flyers.. What's the genres it may belong to? 
Flying Tigers:: Action,Drama,War
The movie 'Peter Pan': Leaving the safety of their nursery behind, Wendy, Michael and John follow Peter Pan to a magical world where childhood lasts forever. But while in Neverland, the kids must face Captain Hook and foil his attempts to get rid of Peter for good.. What's the genres it may belong to? 
Peter Pan:: Animation,Children's,Fantasy,Musical
The movie 'Snake Eyes': All bets are off when shady homicide cop Rick Santoro witnesses a murder during a boxing match. It's up to him and lifelong friend, Naval intelligence agent Kevin Dunne to uncover the conspiracy behind the killing. At every turn, Santoro makes increasingly shocking discoveries that even he can't turn a blind eye to.. What's the genres it may belong to? 
Snake Eyes:: Action,Crime,Mystery,Thriller