3 Ninjas: High Noon at Mega Mountain is a 1998 American martial arts film.  It is the fourth and final installment in the 3 Ninjas franchise.
Directed by Sean McNamara, the film stars only three of the original actors. None of the original child actors from the previous films, such as Michael Treanor, Max Elliott Slade and Chad Power, returned for this installment because they had grown old. Victor Wong is the only cast member to appear in all four films. It is also his final film before his death in 2001. It was filmed in Denver, Colorado at Elitch Gardens Theme Park.


== Plot ==
During their summer vacation with their grandfather Mori, 15-year-old Rocky, 14-year-old Colt, and 9-year-old Tum-Tum take a test in pitch blackness on an obstacle course. They manage to complete the course yet fail to learn how to use their other senses in place of sight. Later that night, Mori overhears Rocky and Colt planning on not returning the subsequent year due to them growing older, leaving Tum-Tum by himself. Mori becomes depressed at this.
Returning home, Tum-Tum also becomes depressed after learning that his favorite TV show, Dave Dragon & the Star Force 5, is going off the air soon from cancellation, and not even his favorite sandwich was made to cheer him up, which confuses his mother, Jessica. The next day, they meet a new neighbor, Amanda, who accidentally crashes her remote-controlled helicopter into their house's window. To recompensate, Jessica invites her over for breakfast and attends Tum-Tum's birthday party at Mega Mountain, an amusement park modeled after Six Flags. Once they arrive at Mega Mountain, Rocky goes to spend time with his girlfriend, Jennifer, and her few friends, Veronica, Eric, and Doyle, while Tum-Tum convinces Colt to join him to watch the performance. While the kids are enjoying themselves, a master criminal named Mary Ann "Medusa" Rogers and her henchmen sneak in and commandeer the park, disabling many rides and shutting the place down to hold the patrons hostage. Medusa and the rest of her men infiltrate the park's command center operations as their secret base, and she threatens the park's owner, Harry Jacobsons, to pay the $10 million ransom in exchange for the park's guests' safety. Meanwhile, Tum-Tum and Colt want to get an autograph from Dave until they witness and save him from being captured by Medusa's henchmen. Rocky rejoins his brothers and Amanda, fending off the men after spotting them on the surveillance camera monitors. The boys and Amanda realize the park has been compromised and report to Dave about it, who went into action. The boys and Amanda notice the radio to make contact with the emergency services, and the police and firefighters units are sent to investigate the park. However, Medusa and her men spot and ambush them, which causes the FBI to arrive at the park for backup. In retaliation, Medusa orders her Jamaican sidekick, C.J., to increase the Avalanche ride's speed level. The boys and Amanda rescue the riders by fighting some of the few men with Amanda's special arsenals that she possesses while she overrides the ride control with her laptop.
Knowing that they will interfere with her plans, Medusa sends her three dim-witted nephews, Carl, Buelow, and Zed, to capture them, but they are taken down by the boys, who use the park's carnival game items and a ride with their ninja skills. Meanwhile, Dave sneaks into the command center but is quickly discovered and captured by Medusa and her henchmen. The SWAT team arrives and attempts to enter the park through the fence but is stopped by the mercenaries with their trap set with electricity. In the meantime, Amanda utilizes the park’s central control systems with her laptop to lock the ride access down with C.J. trying to wrestle the controls from her, but not before Medusa quickly accesses the Zinger roller coaster's emergency brake that stops the ride on the inversion. Dave tries to attack Medusa but she subdues him, and her men imprison