3 Ninjas is a series of action comedy family films about the adventures of three young brothers who are trained by their Japanese grandfather in the art of Ninjutsu. Victor Wong is the only cast member to appear in all four films.


== Characters ==
Samuel "Rocky" Douglas Jr. — portrayed by Michael Treanor (3 Ninjas and 3 Ninjas Knuckle Up), Sean Fox (3 Ninjas Kick Back), and  Mathew Bothuchis (3 Ninjas: High Noon at Mega Mountain)

Born 1979 and 1983, the eldest brother. Grandpa gives him the ninja name "Rocky" because he is as strong as granite and is a level-headed leader. His trademark color is green.
Jeffrey "Colt" Douglas — portrayed by Max Elliott Slade(3 Ninjas, 3 Ninjas Kick Back and 3 Ninjas Knuckle Up).Michael O'Laskey II (3 Ninjas: High Noon at Mega Mountain )

Born 1980 and 1983, the middle child. Grandpa gave him the ninja name "Colt" because he is "fast and free like the young wild horse". He is known for his shorter temper and sharp tongue. His trademark color is blue.
Michael "Tum-Tum" Douglas-portrayed by Chad Power(3 Ninjas and 3 Ninjas Knuckle Up),
Evan Bonifant (3 Ninjas Kick Back),and James Paul Roeske II (3 Ninjas: High Noon at Mega Mountain)

Born 1984 and 1989, the youngest brother. Grandpa gave him the ninja name "Tum-Tum" because his energy begins with his stomach. Known for his large appetite and fondness for sweets. His trademark colors have been yellow, orange, and red.


== Films ==


=== 3 Ninjas (1992) ===

Each summer, Samuel, Jeffrey and Michael, three suburban California brothers, visit their grandfather Mori Tanaka's cabin in the desert to train to become ninjas. On their last day of summer vacation, the boys receive "ninja names": Samuel is Rocky because of his strength and levelheaded mentality, Jeffrey is Colt because of his speed and temper like a young wild horse, and Michael is Tum Tum due to his energy coming from his gluttony. They witness a confrontation between their grandfather and Hugo Snyder, ex-student/partner of Tanaka and a criminal who is being pursued by the boys' father, FBI agent Sam Douglas. Snyder plans to kidnap the boys with the help of his assistant Mr. Brown, who employs his irresponsible nephew Fester, and his friends Hammer and Marcus to abduct them. After a failed attempt at kidnapping foiled by the three boys outsmarting the three men while their parents are out, Mr. Brown along with heavyweight fighter "Rushmore" appear and they easily capture the trio, leaving a note with Rocky's girlfriend Emily, telling Sam that Snyder has kidnapped his children in retaliation for his constant attempts to arrest him. Mori arrives at the house and Sam reluctantly agrees to give him one hour to rescue the children. Mori tracks the children to a ship at the docks where Snyder is training an army of ninjas and begins searching for the boys and Snyder. Meanwhile, the boys escape their containment cell using the training bestowed upon them by their Grandfather and begin fighting their way out of the ship, leading up to a final confrontation between Snyder and Mori. Mori wins, despite Snyder's foul play and Sam ambushes the ship with a slew of FBI agents, wounding Snyder and foiling his evil organization.


=== 3 Ninjas Kick Back (1994) ===

Rocky, Colt and Tum Tum are torn between seeing a championship baseball game through to the end or going to Japan to deliver a golden dagger to their grandfather; they choose the latter. On the way to Japan, they meet Miyo, a girl who Rocky is very fond of. When Koga gets the dagger and sword, he tries to open the cave of gold. Koga and Mori become friends and Miyo gets the dagger. During their Japanese adventure, the kids learn important skills and life lessons which help them win the final baseball game of their season, with Colt hitting a home run. A poor sport on the opposing team picks on them; Darren attempts to attack Miyo but ends up getting knocked unconscious during one of the final scenes.


=== 3 Ninjas Knuckle Up (1995) ===

Rocky