An Actor's Revenge (Japanese: 雪之丞変化, Hepburn: Yukinojō henge), also known as Revenge of a Kabuki Actor, is a 1963 Japanese film directed by Kon Ichikawa, based on a novel by Otokichi Mikami.


== Plot ==
Japan in the late Edo period: Three men — Sansai Dobe, Kawaguchiya and Hiromiya — are responsible for the suicide of seven-year-old Yukitarō's mother and father. Yukitarō is adopted and brought up by Kikunojō Nakamura, the actor-manager of an Osaka kabuki troupe. The adult Yukitarō  becomes an onnagata, a male actor who plays female roles, taking the stage name Yukinojō. He wears women's clothes and uses the language and mannerisms of a woman offstage as well as on. 
Twenty years later, the troupe pays a visit to Edo, where the men responsible for his parents' deaths now live. Yukinojō brings about their deaths, then, having achieved his goal, and apparently overcome by the death of an innocent woman who was part of his schemes but whom he became fond of, retires from the stage and disappears.
The events are coolly observed and sardonically commented on by the Robin-Hood-like thief Yamitarō.


== Cast ==
Kazuo Hasegawa as Yukinojō Nakamura and Yamitarō
Fujiko Yamamoto as Ohatsu
Ayako Wakao as Namiji
Raizō Ichikawa as Hirutarō
Shintarō Katsu as Hōjin, the escaped convict
Eiji Funakoshi as Heima Kadokura
Chūsha Ichikawa as Kikunojō Nakamura
Narutoshi Hayashi as Mukuzu
Nakamura Ganjirō II as Sansai Dobe
Saburō Date as Kawaguchiya
Eijirō Yanagi as Hiromiya
Jun Hamamura as Isshōsai
Toshio Chiba as Rōnin
Masayoshi Kikuno as Yukinojō’s father
Kōichi Mizuhara as Dobe’s retainer
Shirō Ōtsuji as First Constable
Tokio Oki as Second Constable
Michirō Minami as First Townsman
Yutaka Nakamura as Second Townsman
Chitose Maki as Townswoman
Eigorō Onoe as The Shōgun
Musei Tokugawa as Narrator


== Production ==
Mikami's novel had been adapted for the screen numerous times before, the first time by Teinosuke Kinugasa (1935–36), which also starred Kazuo Hasegawa. The 1963 version was Hasegawa's 300th role as a film actor, who plays both Yukinojō and thief Yamitarō. The screenplay was written by director Ichikawa's wife, Natto Wada, based on Kinugasa's 1935 and Daisuke Itō's 1939 dramatisations. Yoshinobu Nishioka served as art director. The voice-over narration was provided by famous benshi Musei Tokugawa.


== References ==


== External links ==
An Actor's Revenge at IMDb 
An Actor's Revenge at AllMovie
An Actor's Revenge at the TCM Movie Database
DVD Times review
An Actor’s Revenge and a Director’s Triumph an essay by Michael Sragow at the Criterion Collection