The Adventures of Elmo in Grouchland is a 1999 American musical adventure comedy film directed by Gary Halvorson in his feature film debut. This was the second of the two theatrical feature films to be based on the children's television series Sesame Street, after Sesame Street Presents: Follow That Bird. It stars Mandy Patinkin and Vanessa Williams alongside Muppet performers Kevin Clash, Caroll Spinney, Steve Whitmire, and Frank Oz.
Produced by Jim Henson Pictures and Children's Television Workshop, the film was released by Columbia Pictures on October 1, 1999. The film received generally positive reviews from critics, but was a box office bomb, grossing $12 million against a budget of more than $26 million.
The film was one of the few Sesame Street productions directly produced by The Jim Henson Company. This was the final Muppet feature film to involve Oz, who retired from being a full-time puppeteer the following year. This was also the final Muppet film to feature Caroll Spinney before his retirement in 2018 and his death in 2019.


== Plot ==
One day, Elmo plays with his blanket in his bedroom in his apartment. He spills orange juice on his blanket and takes it to the laundromat. Afterward, he runs into his friend Zoe. Zoe wants to hold the blanket, but Elmo does not consent to sharing it, resulting in a tug of war that causes it to rip. Upset, Elmo declares to Zoe that she is not his friend anymore. Telly Monster, rollerskating out of control, comes and accidentally swipes the blanket, leading to a chase around Sesame Street. The blanket ends up falling into the hands of Oscar the Grouch, who sneezes on it and drops it in his trash can. Unwilling to wait for Oscar to return, Elmo dives into the bottom of the trash can, where he finds his blanket snagged on a door.
Attempting to retrieve it, he and his blanket are then teleported through a colorful swirling tunnel to Grouchland, a city filled with Grouches, trash, and Huxley, a greedy man who loves to steal anything he comes across, including Elmo's blanket. A kind Grouch girl named Grizzy tells Elmo that his blanket is in Huxley's castle at the top of the faraway Mount Pickanose. A plant named Stuckweed encourages Elmo that he will make it if he just takes his first step, so Elmo sets out on a quest to retrieve his blanket.
With Oscar's help, the Sesame Street residents (Zoe, Telly, Gordon, Maria, Cookie Monster, and Big Bird) go to Grouchland to find Elmo, but when they encounter a Grouch police officer & try to ask the officer for assistance, they end up getting arrested as they are informed that it is against the law to ask somebody for assistance in Grouchland, and they get sent to prison for doing so.
Huxley has his bug sidekick, Bug and his minions, the Pesties, trap Elmo in a cave. Elmo gets out with the help of fireflies who show him a way out. Huxley then has Bug and the Pesties misdirect Elmo into a garbage dump where he is brought before the Queen of Trash for trespassing. Her citizens think that he might be a spy for Huxley, so the Queen tests Elmo, requesting that he blows 100 raspberries for her in 30 seconds. Elmo succeeds with some help from the audience and the Queen allows him to pass through. Huxley sends in a giant chicken to stop Elmo, who tosses Elmo far away. Elmo decides to give up on retrieving his blanket for the night. Meanwhile, Grizzy sneaks into the jail where she informs Elmo's friends that he has gone to Huxley's castle. After admitting that Elmo is his friend, Oscar convinces all the Grouches to cooperate, since it is the only way they can stop Huxley from stealing any more of their trash. The police officer releases the Sesame Street residents so they and the Grouches can go to Huxley's castle to fight for their trash and rescue Elmo.
Early the next morning, a caterpillar wakes Elmo up and convinces him that he has what it takes to be brave. Elmo then arrives at Huxley's castle and rescues his blanket as Huxley sends the Pesties to sto