Vive l'amour (simplified Chinese: 爱情万岁; traditional Chinese: 愛情萬歲; pinyin: Àiqíng wànsuì; lit. 'long live love') is a 1994 Taiwanese New Wave film directed by Tsai Ming-liang. Starring Lee Kang-sheng, Yang Kuei-mei and Chen Chao-jung.
The film had its world premiere at the 51st Venice International Film Festival, where it won the Golden Lion, the festival's top prize.
While the film was celebrated by most film critics when it was first released, its vague story-line and cinematic techniques resulted in an average box office turnout.


== Plot ==

Hsiao-kang (Lee Kang-sheng), a young salesman for commercial ossuary, notices a key to an vacant apartment, forgotten by a real estate agent, dangling in its locks and promptly pockets it while no one else is around. He soon moves into one of the bedrooms. One night he attempts to commit suicide by slitting his wrists while lying on the bed, but gets distracted by a noise coming from another corner of the apartment.
Meanwhile, Ah-jung (Chen Chao-jung) is having coffee at a food court when an attractive real estate agent, May Lin (Yang Kuei-mei), sits at the table next to his. Intrigued after they share a glance, he follows her as she walks down the street. Lin catches on and eventually joins him. She leads him to a vacant apartment that she has on the market—the same apartment that Hsiao-kang is secretly staying in—and they have sex in one of the bedrooms. Hsiao-kang, who is contemplating suicide in another room, hears them and tries to stop the bleeding from his wrists.
Ah-jung steals the key to the apartment from May Lin and later returns with his belongings. He moves into one of the adjoining bedrooms. On his first night in the apartment, he and Hsiao-kang encounter each other in the apartment and have a short argument.
May Lin spends her day trying to sell property. While taking a break, she returns to the apartment when Hsiao-kang and Ah-jung are both there. The two sneak out quietly together and soon form a friendship.
One night, Hsiao-kang goes out for a walk and meets Ah-jung selling dresses on the street. May Lin walks past but does not notice them. Soon, Ah-jung joins her at a food stand and the two return to the apartment and sleep together in the same room as they did the first time. Unbeknownst to them, Hsiao-kang is hiding under the bed the entire time, masturbating himself as the bed creaks above him.
The next morning, May Lin gets dressed and leaves. Hsiao-kang lies next to the sleeping Ah-jung and kisses him before slowly pulling away. Lin goes to her car but cannot start it, so instead she walks on a path in the unfinished Daan Forest Park. She then sits down on a bench and starts to cry uncontrollably.


== Cast ==
Yang Kuei-mei (楊貴媚) as May Lin – a real estate agent and a heavy smoker, who uses the empty apartment for sexual affairs. She brings Ah-hung to one of the properties she has been trying to sell and has sex with him.
Lee Kang-sheng (李康生) as Hsiao-kang – a salesman for commercial ossuaries (納骨塔), who discovers an apartment key and secretly moves into the apartment.
Chen Chao-jung (陳昭榮) as Ah-jung – a street vendor, who steals the key to the apartment May Lin brings him to and later moves into the apartment. Sharing the absurd life situations together, he forms a friendship with Hsiao-kang after having a quarrel with him at the apartment where they both secretly live in.
Lu Yi-ching (陸弈靜) as a coffee shop owner (uncredit)


== Themes ==
Continuing Tsai Ming-liang's attentive observation of urban life, Vive l'amour unfolds the theme of urban alienation through three young urbanites' search for romance and their disbelief in traditional family values in the 1990s Taipei. Tsai Ming-liang takes a bold move with plot lines that are stylistically designed to focus on only a trio of main characters, who unknowingly share an apartment in Taipei. The cinematic language of Vive l'amour is kept to an extreme minimum. Tsai Ming-liang's austere composition of dialogues w