The Regency of Algiers (Arabic: دولة الجزائر, romanized: Dawlat al-Jaza'ir) was a largely independent tributary state of the Ottoman Empire during the early modern period, located on the Barbary Coast of North Africa from 1516 to 1830. Founded by the corsair brothers Aruj and Hayreddin Barbarossa (Also known as Oruç and Khayr ad-Din), the Regency was a formidable and infamous pirate base. First ruled by Ottoman regents, it later became a sovereign military republic that plundered and waged maritime holy war against European Christian powers.
The regency emerged during the 16th-century Ottoman–Habsburg wars, a unique military oligarchy of janissaries and corsairs that drew its revenues and political power from its maritime strength. When the war between the two empires ended in the early 17th century, merchant ships and goods belonging to France, England and the Netherlands were being captured and their crews and passengers enslaved. The Ottoman sultan could not stop these attacks so the European powers negotiated with the Regency directly and conducted vigorous sea operations against it, but the pirates expanded across the Atlantic and the Barbary slave trade reached its apex in Algiers. After the janissary coup in 1659, elected local rulers emerged.
Wars with France, Maghrebi states and Spain followed in the 18th century over consolidation of territory, diplomatic relations with European states and Mediterranean trade. The American war of independence led to U.S. shipping to the Mediterranean, and the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic wars allowed large bursts of Algerian privateering. Increased demands from Algiers for tribute caused the Barbary wars, in which American, British and Dutch navies engaged the Barbary corsairs at the beginning of the 19th century, and decisively defeated Algiers for the first time. Internal central authority weakened due to political intrigue, failed harvests and the decline of privateering. Violent tribal revolts ensued, mainly led by maraboutic orders such as the Darqawis and Tijanis. France took advantage of this domestic turmoil to invade in 1830. The French conquest of Algeria eventually led to French colonial rule until 1962.


== History ==


=== 16th century: Establishment ===


==== The Barbarossa brothers ====

After the Reconquista was completed in 1492, Spain established strongpoints, called presidios on the North African coast. The Spanish took Oran in 1509, then conquered Tripoli in 1510 and made Hafsid Tunis a vassal state. The Spanish then had control over the stations of the caravans from western Sudan, from Tripoli and Tunis in the east and from Ceuta and Melilla in the west, which passed through Béjaïa, Algiers, Oran and Tlemcen. Control over this gold and slave trade became essential for the Spanish treasury.
The Ottoman corsair brothers Aruj and Hayreddin Barbarossa came to North Africa when the citizens of Béjaïa asked for help in 1512, then those of Jijel in 1514. In 1516, the brothers were able to take Algiers, execute its emir, Salim Al-Tumi, and repel a Spanish attack led by Diego de Vera. Aruj continued his conquests in central Algeria, but was killed in Tlemcen in 1518. 
His brother Hayreddin became Sultan of Algiers at the end of 1519. After repelling another Spanish attack under Hugo de Moncada, he realized that he needed the support of the Ottomans to maintain his possessions around Algiers. In October 1519, a delegation of Algerian dignitaries and ulemas was commissioned to propose to Ottoman Sultan Selim I that Algiers join the Ottoman Empire. Under Suleiman I, Algiers officially became an eyalet of the Ottoman Empire in the spring of 1521, although Istanbul viewed the idea of integrating a territory so far away and so close to Spain as a risk. Hayreddin was appointed Beylerbey lit. 'Prince of princes' and the Ottomans sent 2,000 Janissaries to support him.
Hayreddin Barbarossa, supported by the Kabyles of Beni Abbas, retook Algiers again in 1525 after defeatin