Alice in Wonderland syndrome (AIWS), also known as Todd's syndrome or dysmetropsia, is a neurological disorder that distorts perception. People with this syndrome may experience distortions in their visual perception of objects, such as appearing smaller (micropsia) or larger (macropsia), or appearing to be closer (pelopsia) or farther (teleopsia) than they are. Distortion may also occur for senses other than vision.
The cause of Alice in Wonderland syndrome is currently not known, but it has often been associated with migraines, head trauma, or viral encephalitis caused by Epstein–Barr virus infection. It is also theorized that AIWS can be caused by abnormal amounts of electrical activity, resulting in abnormal blood flow in the parts of the brain that process visual perception and texture.
Although there are cases of Alice in Wonderland syndrome in both adolescents and adults, it is most commonly seen in children.


== Classification ==
The classification is not universally agreed upon in literature, however, some authors distinguish true Alice in Wonderland syndrome based solely on symptoms related to alterations in a person's body image. In contrast, they utilize the term "Alice in Wonderland-like syndrome" to encompass symptoms associated with changes in perception of vision, time, hearing, touch, or other external perceptions.
Due to the classification of all the clinical features seen in Alice in Wonderland, the table below illustrates theses features and symptoms by type with Type C having a combination of Type A and Type B symptoms.


== Signs and symptoms ==
With over 60 associated symptoms, AIWS affects the sense of vision, sensation, touch, and hearing, as well as the perception of one's body image. Migraines, nausea, dizziness, and agitation are also commonly associated symptoms with Alice in Wonderland syndrome. Less frequent symptoms also include: loss of limb control and coordination, memory loss, lingering touch and sound sensations, and emotional instability. Alice in Wonderland syndrome is often associated with distortion of sensory perception, which involves visual, somatosensory, and non-visual symptoms. AIWS is characterized by the individual being able to recognize the distortion in the perception of their own body and is episodic. AIWS episodes vary in length from person to person. Episodes typically last from a few minutes to an hour, and each episode may vary in experience.


=== Visual distortions ===
Individuals with AIWS can experience illusions of expansion, reduction, or distortion of their body image, such as microsomatognosia (feeling that their own body or body parts are shrinking), or macrosomatognosia (feeling that their body or body parts are growing taller or larger). These changes in perception are collectively known as metamorphopsias, or Lilliputian hallucinations, which refer to objects appearing either smaller or larger than reality. People with certain neurological diseases may also experience similar visual hallucinations.
Within the category of Lilliputian hallucinations, people may experience either micropsia or macropsia. Micropsia is an abnormal visual condition, usually occurring in the context of visual hallucination, in which the affected person sees objects as being smaller than they are in reality. Macropsia is a condition where the individual sees everything larger than it is. These visual distortions are sometimes classified as "Alice in Wonderland-like syndrome" instead of true Alice in Wonderland syndrome but are often still classified as Alice in Wonderland syndrome by health professionals and researchers since the distinction is not official.  Other distortions include teleopsia (objects are perceived further than they actually are) and pelopsia (objects are perceived closer than they actually are).


=== Depersonalization/derealization ===
Along with size, mass, and shape distortions of the body, those with Alice in Wonderland syndrome often experience a feeling of d