American Pie is a film series consisting of four sex comedy films. American Pie, the first film in the series, was released by Universal Pictures in 1999. The film became a worldwide pop culture phenomenon and gained a cult following among young people. Following American Pie, the second and third films in the series, American Pie 2 (2001) and American Wedding (2003), were released; the fourth, American Reunion, was released in 2012. A spin-off film series entitled American Pie Presents consists of five direct-to-video films that were released from 2005 to 2020.
Throughout the first film in the original series, Jim Levenstein (Jason Biggs) tries to develop a relationship with his school classmate Nadia (Shannon Elizabeth). Jim and three of his best friends, Kevin Myers (Thomas Ian Nicholas), Paul Finch (Eddie Kaye Thomas), and Chris Ostreicher (Chris Klein), make a pact to lose their virginity before their high school graduation. Steve Stifler (Seann William Scott), the obnoxious jock of the group, provides them with unorthodox advice while hosting wild parties in the meantime. In the second film, the five boys host a summer party and Jim becomes interested in his friend, Michelle Flaherty (Alyson Hannigan). In the third film, Jim and Michelle plan to marry, although the forced invitation of Stifler could ruin everything. In the fourth film, the group gets back together in anticipation of their 13th year since graduating high school. The spin-off series revolves around relatives of Stifler, including his brother Matt (Tad Hilgenbrink), his cousins Erik (John White), Dwight (Steve Talley), Scott (John Patrick Jordan), and Stephanie (Lizze Broadway), and their respective friends.
The original production produced on a total budget of US$145 million, has grossed nearly a billion worldwide. The spin-off films were released direct-to-video. The original series has received mixed reviews from critics, while the spin-off series has received negative reviews.


== Cast ==


=== Principal cast ===


=== Additional crew ===


== Production ==


=== Development ===
In the original American Pie (1999), Jim Levenstein and his friends Kevin Myers, Paul Finch, and Chris Ostreicher attempt to lose their virginity before their high school graduation. Jim pursues Czech exchange student Nadia, but his attempts fail after he ejaculates prematurely twice during foreplay, and instead pursues band geek Michelle, asking her to the prom. At Stifler's prom after-party, Jim has a one-night stand with Michelle, and the rest of the friends lose their virginity as well.
In American Pie 2 (2001), Jim and his friends organize a party at a summer beach house in Grand Harbor reuniting the high school gang. Nadia returns, and Jim asks Michelle to help him finally have sex with her. Jim ends up realizing he is in love with Michelle (whose feelings are mutual), and goes to a recital where she is performing to reveal this to her.
American Wedding (2003) begins with Jim proposing to Michelle. Finch, Kevin, and Stifler help the arranging of his marriage.
In the years that have passed since American Wedding, the most recent installment American Reunion (2012) shows Jim and Michelle married with a child, and Kevin has gotten married himself, whereas Oz and Heather grew apart, Finch still has not found love (not counting Stifler's mom), and Stifler has not come to terms with the fact that his teenage years are long gone. Now these lifelong friends have come home as adults for their thirteenth high school class reunion, to reminisce about – and get inspired by – the hormonal teens they once were.
The film series began with American Pie, released on July 9, 1999. This was followed by three sequels: American Pie 2, released on August 10, 2001, American Wedding, released on August 1, 2003, and American Reunion, released on April 6, 2012.


=== Future ===
A fifth theatrical film, under the working title American Pie 5, was in consideration in 2012, as the fourth film had don