Anchors Aweigh is a 1945 American musical comedy film directed by George Sidney, starring Frank Sinatra, Kathryn Grayson, and  Gene Kelly, with songs by Jule Styne and Sammy Cahn. The film also features José Iturbi, Pamela Britton, Dean Stockwell, and Sharon McManus.
The plot concerns two sailors on a four-day shore leave in Hollywood, who meet a young boy and his aunt, an aspiring young singer, and try to help her get an audition for José Iturbi  at Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. In a live-action/animated fantasy sequence, Kelly dances with Jerry Mouse, the cartoon mouse of the Tom and Jerry series, and Tom Cat has a brief cameo appearance.
The film received mixed reviews but it became a financial success.


== Plot ==
Gunner's Mate Second Class Joe Brady and Seaman First Class Clarence Doolittle are USN sailors who have a four-day leave in Hollywood. Joe has his heart set on spending time with his girl (the never seen) Lola. Clarence, the shy choir boy turned sailor, asks Joe to teach him how to get girls. Donald, a little boy who wants to join the navy, is found wandering around the boulevard by a cop, who takes him to the police station. Clarence and Joe end up being picked up by the cops to help convince Donald to go home. After the two sailors wait at home and entertain Donald, Donald's Aunt Susie arrives. Clarence is smitten with her from the beginning. Susan goes on to tell them that she has been trying to find work in music, and longs to perform with José Iturbi. Trying to make Susan impressed with Clarence, Joe tells her that Clarence is a personal friend of Iturbi, and that he has arranged an audition for Susan with him. That night, they go out to a café (on an MGM recreation of Olvera Street) where Clarence meets a girl from Brooklyn, and they hit it off. The next day, Joe visits Donald's school, and tells the kids the story of how he got his medal, and how he brought happiness to a young lonesome king (played by Jerry the Mouse in an animated sequence from Tom and Jerry), and joy to the forest animals of the kingdom.
Meanwhile, Clarence has been trying to get into Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios to find Iturbi, with no luck. After many failed attempts to speak to Iturbi (including a rehearsal at the Hollywood Bowl), all hope is lost for Joe and Clarence, who want to come clean with Susan and tell her there was no audition. On Clarence and Joe's last day of leave, Susan runs into Iturbi in the studio commissary, who has no idea of the audition. Susan begins to call Joe, whom by now she has fallen in love with, to yell at him. Iturbi stops her and agrees to get her a screen test, which turns out to be very successful. The movie ends as Iturbi conducts the choir in singing "Anchors Aweigh", while Joe and Susan, and Clarence and the "Girl from Brooklyn," kiss.


== Cast ==


== Songs ==
Songs by Jule Styne and Sammy Cahn except where noted:

"Main Title" – MGM Studio and Orchestra
"Anchors Aweigh" (Zimmerman, Miles) – MGM Studio and Orchestra and Jose Iturbi
"We Hate to Leave" – Gene Kelly & Frank Sinatra
"Brahms' Lullaby" – Frank Sinatra (sung to Donald to come back again with Joe)
"I Begged Her" – Gene Kelly & Frank Sinatra
"If You Knew Susie" (DeSylva, Meyer) – Frank Sinatra & Gene Kelly
"Jealousy"  (Jacob Gade) – Kathryn Grayson
"What Makes the Sunset" – Frank Sinatra
"(All of a Sudden) My Heart Sings" (from the French song "Ma Mie" by Henri Laurent Herpin; English lyric by Harold Rome) – Kathryn Grayson
"The Donkey Serenade" – Jose Iturbi
"The King Who Couldn't Sing and Dance" – Gene Kelly
"The Worry Song" (Ralph Freed, Sammy Fain) – Gene Kelly & Sara Berner (as Jerry Mouse from the cartoons "Tom and Jerry")
"The Charm of You" – Frank Sinatra (featuring a rare appearance of Guitarist Benito Mayorga with the orchestra)
"Las Chiapanecas" – Gene Kelly & Sharon McManus
"Liszt's Hungarian Rhapsody No. 2" – Jose Iturbi
"I Fall in Love Too Easily" – Frank Sinatra
"La cumparsita" (Gerardo Matos Rodríguez) – Gene Kelly
"Waltz Serenade"