Gail Russell (born Betty Gale Russell; September 21, 1924 – August 26, 1961) was an American film and television actress.


== Early years ==
Gail Russell was born to George and Gladys (Barnet) Russell in Chicago and then moved to the Los Angeles area when she was a teenager. Her father was initially a musician but later worked for Lockheed Corporation. Before she ventured into acting, Russell had planned to be a commercial artist. Her beauty saw her dubbed "the Hedy Lamarr of Santa Monica."


== Career and life ==
Russell's beauty brought her to the attention of Paramount Pictures in 1942, and she signed a long-term contract with that studio when she was 18.
Russell later said, "suddenly there was this terrific amount of work for myself and no time to myself. It was that way for ten years."
At the age of 19, Russell made her film debut in the 1943 film Henry Aldrich Gets Glamour. She also had a small part in Lady in the Dark (1943) and was meant to play a role in Henry Aldrich Haunts a House when, in March 1943, she was cast in a key role in The Uninvited (1944) with Ray Milland. Joan Mortimer played Russell's role in Henry Aldrich instead.


=== Stardom ===

The Uninvited was directed by Lewis Allen and was a big success. Producer Charles Brackett wrote that filming with Russell proved difficult; he said that she would cry on set with her mother, claiming she had a sore throat, but in fact, Russell was crying because Director Lewis Allen had made her wear a hat for a scene which she did not want to wear. Allen said that Ray Milland would take Russell aside and continuously practice her lines with her. Allen also said, "She could only do about five or six lines, and then she'd burst into tears." According to Allen, Russell, who had not drunk alcohol before, began drinking it to calm herself at the suggestion of the head of make-up on set.
According to the National Box Office Digest, it was among the highest-grossing pictures in the United States with rentals of over $500,000. A delighted Paramount announced Russell for Her Heart in Her Throat and True to the Navy with Eddie Bracken.
Allen directed Russell in Our Hearts Were Young and Gay (1944), in which she co-starred with Diana Lynn. It was another success.
Russell co-starred opposite Alan Ladd in Salty O'Rourke (1945), a horse racing drama.
Her Heart in Her Throat became the third film Russell made with Allen, The Unseen (1945), an unofficial follow up to The Uninvited. True to the Navy became Bring On the Girls; Russell did not appear in that film.
Then she and Lynn were in Our Hearts Were Growing Up (1946), a sequel to Our Hearts Were Young and Gay. Paramount announced her as the female lead in The Virginian (1946) but she did not appear in the final movie.
She was reunited with Ladd in Calcutta (1947), shot in 1945 but not released until two years later. She made a cameo as herself in two all-star Paramount films, Duffy's Tavern (1945) and Variety Girl (1947).


=== Loan-outs ===

Russell was borrowed by Andrew Stone for The Bachelor's Daughters (1946) at United Artists.
Republic Pictures borrowed her to be John Wayne's leading lady in a film Wayne was producing, Angel and the Badman (1947). Also at Republic she did Moonrise (1948) for Frank Borzage.
Russell returned to Paramount for Night Has a Thousand Eyes (1948), directed by John Farrow, who had made Calcutta. She reteamed with Wayne at Republic for Wake of the Red Witch (1948), which was a hit.
She appeared in a Western, El Paso (1949), with John Payne for Pine-Thomas Productions, a production outfit who released through Paramount.

Russell did Song of India (1949) for Columbia and The Great Dan Patch (1949) for United Artists.
Russell married actor Guy Madison on 1 August 1949. They separated in less than six months but later reunited, then separated in 1953, and divorced in 1954.
She made some more Pine-Thomas films: Captain China (1950) with Payne, and The Lawless (1951) with Macdonald Carey directed by Joseph L