The Asylum is an American film production and distribution company based in Burbank, California. The company is known for producing low-budget, direct-to-video films, in particular mockbusters, which capitalize on the popularity of major studio films with similar titles and premises. The Asylum's business model revolves around producing as many low-budget films as quickly as possible, and earn around $150,000 to $250,000 in profit. Since the company produces dozens of films every year, this model generates millions of dollars, and the company claims to have never lost money on a film. The Asylum spends around 4-6 months making a film, and since the company is not affiliated with any industry guilds other than SAG-AFTRA, this means their employees will sometimes work upwards of 22 hours a day.
Initially founded as a distribution company for low-budget drama films, The Asylum switched to in-house productions in the mid-2000s due to competition from larger studios like Lionsgate Films. In 2005, The Asylum released the film H. G. Wells' War of the Worlds the day before Steven Spielberg film War of the Worlds. Blockbuster ordered 100,000 copies, which inspired The Asylum to focus on mockbusters. This led to a partnership with the television channel Syfy, and with the rise of video on demand (VOD) services in the early 2010s, partnerships with Pluto TV and Tubi. The Asylum's greatest success came in 2013 with the film Sharknado, which is about a waterspout that lifts sharks out of the ocean and drops them over Los Angeles. The over-the-top premise went viral, and led to the creation of the Sharknado franchise. In response to the popularity of Sharknado, Syfy commissioned The Asylum to produce a zombie television series called Z Nation, which ran for five seasons.


== History ==


=== 1997–2009 ===

The Asylum was founded in 1997 by David Latt, David Rimawi, and Sherri Strain. Rimawi and Strain had been fired by Village Roadshow Pictures, and Latt was working for an education software company called Chimera Multimedia. Latt and Rimawi had previously worked together on the 1992 film Sorority House Party, and together with Strain, launched The Asylum as a film distribution company. The Asylum's first release was Bellyfruit in 1999, a comedy drama about a teen pregnancy. The company's initial goal was to distribute low-budget drama films like Bellyfruit to video rental chains like Blockbuster and Hollywood Video, but their approach changed in the early 2000s, as video rental chains were more interested in direct-to-video horror films. The Asylum struggled to break into the distribution market, as larger companies like Lionsgate Films would routinely offer filmmakers more money. This led to a change in their business model in 2002, with a focus on in-house productions. Their goal was to produce one film per month, starting with the 2002 crime thriller King of the Ants. Strain left the company in 2002, and was replaced by former Screen Actors Guild employee Paul Bales.
According to Film International, The Asylum's first hit film was Vampires vs. Zombies in 2004. Although the film was marketed as an adaptation of the 1872 novella Carmilla, Vampires vs. Zombies's poster bore a striking resemblance to Freddy vs. Jason's poster, which came out the year before. Film International writer Wheeler Winston Dixon described Vampires vs. Zombies as The Asylum's first mockbuster, a film that closely resembles another film with a similar title and premise in order to capitalize on its popularity. Around the same time, Latt began working on an adaptation of the 1898 novel The War of the Worlds, but learned that Steven Spielberg was also working on a film adaptation of the novel. Latt was prepared to end production until Blockbuster ordered 100,000 copies of the film, roughly seven to eight times the normal order for Asylum films. Latt's film, titled H. G. Wells' War of the Worlds, was released on June 28, 2005, one day before Spielberg's film.
Inspired