Austin Powers: International Man of Mystery (or simply Austin Powers) is a 1997 American spy comedy film directed by Jay Roach. It is the first installment in the Austin Powers series. It stars franchise co-producer and writer Mike Myers, playing the roles of Austin Powers and his arch enemy Dr. Evil. Supporting roles are played by Elizabeth Hurley, Robert Wagner, Seth Green, and Michael York. The film is a parody of the James Bond films and other popular culture from the 1960s, centering on a flamboyant, promiscuous secret agent and a criminal mastermind arch-nemesis, who go into and come out of cryostasis at the same time as each other as their conflict spans decades.
The film, which cost $16.5 million to produce, was released on May 2, 1997. It received mixed reviews from critics and grossed $67 million worldwide. It is now regarded as one of the best comedy films of all time, ranking 42nd on Bravo's "100 Funniest Movies of All Time" list. The film spawned two sequels, Austin Powers: The Spy Who Shagged Me (1999) and Austin Powers in Goldmember (2002). In the years following Austin Powers in Goldmember, Myers has discussed the possibility of a fourth film, though as of 2024 nothing official has come to fruition.


== Plot ==
In 1967, British spy Austin Powers thwarts an assassination attempt by his nemesis Dr. Evil in a London nightclub. Dr. Evil escapes to space in a rocket and cryogenically freezes himself. Austin volunteers to be placed into cryostasis in case Dr. Evil returns in the future.
Thirty years later, Dr. Evil returns to discover his henchman Number 2 has developed Virtucon, the legitimate front of Evil's empire, into a multibillion-dollar enterprise. Uninterested in business, Dr. Evil conspires to steal nuclear weapons and hold the world hostage for $1 million. He increases his demand to $100 billion when he learns that the value of the dollar has fallen due to inflation. Dr. Evil also learns that, during his absence, his associates have artificially created his son, Scott Evil, using his frozen semen. Now a Generation X teenager, Scott resents his father's absence and resists his attempts to get closer to him.
Having learned of Dr. Evil's return, the British Ministry of Defence unfreezes Austin, acclimatizing him to the 1990s with the help of agent Vanessa Kensington, the daughter of his 1960s sidekick Mrs. Kensington. Posing as a married couple, Austin and Vanessa track Number 2 to Las Vegas and meet his Italian secretary, Alotta Fagina. Austin infiltrates Fagina's penthouse suite and discovers Dr. Evil's plans to drill a nuclear warhead into the Earth's core and trigger volcanic eruptions worldwide. Fagina discovers Austin and seduces him to learn his identity. Dr. Evil and his entourage conspire to defeat Austin by creating a series of fembots: beautiful female androids equipped with machine guns concealed in their breasts.
Austin and Vanessa infiltrate the Virtucon headquarters but are apprehended by Dr. Evil's henchman, Random Task. Meanwhile, the United Nations accede to the demands of Dr. Evil, who proceeds with his plan nonetheless. Austin and Vanessa escape Dr. Evil's death trap and Vanessa is sent for help. While searching for Dr. Evil, Austin is confronted by the fembots. The fembots, wearing pink and purple lingerie, do cartwheels and pose seductively on furniture. They invite Austin to “have a little fun” but he declines saying he has to save the world. Using the cannons concealed in their breasts, the fembots spray Austin with pink knockout gas and pin him to their bed. 
Austin lies in bed with them happy as they rub his face and chest but soon snaps out of it. They rub his chest and convince him to stay. They continue to talk sexy to him and make smooching sounds. After one of the fembots shows him her underwear, Austin makes a run for it but two fembots block the door, saying he can’t resist them. Austin proves them wrong by performing a striptease to “I Touch Myself” by Divinyls. Austin strip