Babe: Pig in the City is a 1998 comedy-drama adventure film. It is the sequel/epilogue to the 1995 film Babe and the second and final installment of the Babe film series. it was co-written, produced and directed by George Miller, who co-wrote and produced the original film. Magda Szubanski and James Cromwell reprise their roles from the first film, with Mickey Rooney joining the cast.
The film was nominated for Best Original Song at the 1998 Academy Awards. Though the film failed to achieve the financial success of its predecessor, grossing only $69.1 million on a $90 million budget, it has received mostly positive reviews.  The film had been developing a cult following since its release.  


== Plot ==
A few weeks after the events of the first film, Farmer Arthur Hoggett is injured in an accident while he and Babe attempt to fix the farm's well, leaving his wife Esme to tend the farm alone. Threatened with eviction at the end of the month unless their mortgage is paid, Esme takes Babe to a sheepdog herding contest in hopes of using its prize money to do so. At the airport in the city of Metropolis, an overzealous sniffer dog named Snoop shows Babe what it is like to be rewarded by falsely signaling that he and Esme are carrying drugs, causing them to miss their flight and forcing a few days wait for the next flight home.
At first unable to find a hotel that allows animals, Esme and Babe find accommodation at the Flealands Hotel, run by the sympathetic Miss Floom, who takes in stray animals. There, Babe is separated from Esme and meets a trio of chimpanzees – Bob, his pregnant wife Zootie and his younger brother Easy – and Thelonius, a civilized Bornean orangutan who is a servant for the landlady's elderly uncle, Fugly. Babe is made part of their clown act, which he is reluctant to appear in until the apes insinuate that he will be paid, believing it could be vital in saving the farm, but he soon inadvertently causes the act to end in disaster. Meanwhile, Esme, believing Babe has escaped, goes looking for him but is arrested after an incident involving police officers and other bystanders when a motorcycle gang attempted to mug her.
The next morning, Fugly is taken to the hospital in a food coma, accompanied by his niece. Left to fend for themselves, the hotel's animal occupants soon become hungry and the chimps decide to obtain some sustenance by stealing from a store, using Babe to distract a pair of guard dogs. Babe rescues one of the dogs when he falls into a canal, who pledges to act as a bodyguard for Babe. Having flown all the way to Metropolis, Babe's best friend, Ferdinand the Duck, arrives at the hotel and reunites with him after Zootie gives birth to twins. The celebration is interrupted when several unfriendly animal control officers are summoned there by the Flooms' animal-hating neighbor, Hortense.
Most of the animals are confiscated except for Babe, Ferdinand, the Flooms' Panamanian white-faced capuchin Tug and disabled Jack Russell Terrier Flealick. They infiltrate the animal control facility and rescue their wrongfully imprisoned friends. Released from custody, Esme returns to the hotel to find it in disarray and Miss Floom mourning her uncle and the animals' capture. After confronting Hortense for her actions, the duo track down the animals to a charity dinner and they reunite. Afterwards, Floom then sells the hotel and gives the proceeds to Esme so the latter, Babe and Ferdinand can save the farm, where Floom and all the animals go to stay. As Esme resumes her duties and Hoggett finally fixes the farm's water pump following his recovery, he proudly smiles at Babe and says "That'll do, Pig. That'll do."


== Cast ==
Magda Szubanski as Esme Cordelia Hoggett, Hoggett's wife.
Mickey Rooney as Fugly Floom, Miss Floom's late uncle.
Mary Stein as Miss Floom, the Flealands Hotel's landlady and Fugly's niece.
James Cromwell as Farmer Arthur Hoggett, Esme's husband.
Julie Godfrey as Hortense, the Flooms' neighbor.
Jan