The Baby-Sitters Club (also known as BSC) is a series of novels, written by Ann M. Martin and published by Scholastic between 1986 and 2000, that sold 180 million copies. Martin wrote an estimated 60-80 novels in the series while subsequent titles were written by ghostwriters, such as Peter Lerangis. The Baby-Sitters Club is about a group of friends living in the fictional, suburban town of Stoneybrook, Connecticut who run a local babysitting service called "The Baby-Sitters Club". The original four members were Kristy Thomas (founder and president), Mary Anne Spier (secretary), Claudia Kishi (vice-president), and Stacey McGill (treasurer), but the number of members varies throughout the series. The novels are told in first-person narrative and deal with issues such as illness, moving, and divorce.
As the series progressed, Dawn Schafer (Alternate Officer), Mallory Pike and Jessi Ramsey (Junior Officers), Logan Bruno (Associate Member), Shannon Kilbourne (second Associate Officer), and Abby Stevenson (Replacement Alternate Officer for Dawn) joined the club.


== History of the series ==
The Baby-Sitters Club series originated when Jean Feiwel, an editor at Scholastic saw the popularity of a novel called Katie's Babysitting Job by Martha Tolles and realized there was a market for novels about babysitting. She contacted Ann M. Martin, who took the general idea of a babysitter's club and created the characters, plots, and settings for the series. It was initially planned as a ten-book series; however, the first ten novels were only moderately successful. Scholastic ordered one hundred more, followed by twenty more as the series grew in popularity. By the time the eleventh novel was published, the first printing was up to 100,000 copies. When publishing ceased in 2000, there had been 213 novels published in the series. Of these, Martin estimates she wrote from 60 to 80.


== Structure of the novels ==
With the exception of Super Specials and Super Mysteries, the novels are written and narrated from one character's point of view. The novels generally follow this format:

Chapter 1: Introduction to character; beginning of plot.
Chapter 2: Description of the club and its members, along with the character's family
Chapter 3-15: Continuation of plot and conclusion, usually accompanied with a subplot.


== Main characters ==


=== Kristin "Kristy" Amanda Thomas ===
Club Role: President
Gender: Girl
Appearance: Shortest girl in 8th grade, white, brown hair, brown eyes; usual clothing is ripped jeans or normal jeans, a sweater, hoodie, turtleneck or sport shirt, sneakers, and a baseball hat.
Birthday: August 20
Age: 12, 13, and 14 in later novels
Kristy is known for her great ideas as well as her bossiness and big mouth that can occasionally get her in trouble. She hates it when she is not in charge, and the idea for "The Baby-Sitters Club" came to Kristy when her mother was having trouble finding a babysitter for her younger brother, David Michael. She felt sorry for David Michael, as well as her mother. In a flash, as she calls it, Kristy had her "great idea" to form The Baby-Sitters Club. Kristy formed the club with herself, her old friend and neighbor Claudia, her best friend Mary Anne, and the new girl Stacey as founding members. Kristy usually wears jeans and a T-shirt (in the winter, a turtleneck and, if needed, a sweater), sneakers, and sometimes a baseball cap with a collie on it, in memory of the family dog, Louie, who was put down in Kristy and the Snobs. She broke her ankle when she was 11 in the summer. She had to wear a cast for six weeks and could not swim. She is athletic and loves sports. She coaches a softball team for small children called Kristy's Krushers, which includes many of the club's sitting charges and her brother, David Michael. Kristy comes from a large family, composed of her mother, Elizabeth, her stepfather, Watson (her biological father walked out of her family when Kristy was six years old and she cried 