Bad Girls Club (abbreviated BGC) is a 2006 American reality television series created by Jonathan Murray for the Oxygen network in the United States. The show focused on the altercations and physical confrontations of seven aggressive, quarrelsome, unruly women. They were featured on the show as "charismatic tough chicks." The cast, deemed "bad girls," enjoyed a luxurious lifestyle in a mansion for three months, during which they obeyed specified rules. Their lives inside and outside the house were recorded by a production team.
Bad Girls Club aired on at least seven networks in other countries: Sky Living in the United Kingdom and Ireland, MTV in Australia, New Zealand and Russia, RTL 5 in the Netherlands, TV11 in Sweden, SIC Radical in Portugal, Velvet in the Philippines, and Channel [V] in Southeast Asia. If a cast member violated production rules, she was evicted from the show and often replaced. The fourth season was the series' "breakthrough season" as Oxygen's first series to average over one million viewers per episode.
There were four spin-offs, including Bad Girls Road Trip, Tanisha Gets Married, Love Games: Bad Girls Need Love Too, and Bad Girls All-Star Battle. In late 2016, Bad Girls Club was renewed for a 17th season, Bad Girls Club: East Meets West. In February 2017, the series' future was put in limbo with the network's announcement that it would convert to a true crime programming format, which was instituted in July 2017. Of the series' future, NBCUniversal Cable Entertainment Lifestyle Networks president Frances Berwick said, "Bad Girls Club, at this stage, I don't see it on Oxygen linear," suggesting that it could air in a non-linear media form. "Beyond that, we haven't figured it out yet."


== Format ==
The format of the first season of Bad Girls Club differs from subsequent seasons, but its rules apply in all subsequent seasons. One feature continued from season one was the way the show opened: viewers were shown the biggest and most intense physical altercation of the season, and the program then went back to a time before it happened. This fight usually gives the viewer an idea of who is going to be the baddest, or one of the baddest, girls in the house. This altercation draws in many viewers and keeps them wondering what will happen next.
In the second season, the show's format changed drastically. The maximum age dropped from 31 to 28. The cast of season two were given mandatory nonprofit jobs to help them build a work ethic and experience the stabilizing effect of being interdependent with others, for example in teamwork and commitment, to equip them for success in later life. Quitting the job or failure to attend resulted in removal from the show. The girls were given the jobs of planning, decision making, and building cooperation. Season two was the first and only season of the Bad Girls Club to do this, and also the last to air 30-minute episodes.
The Bad Girls Club creed, introduced in season three, is:

A Bad Girl knows what she wants and how to get it. She makes her own way, makes her own rules and she makes no apologies. A Bad Girl blazes her own trail and removes obstacles from her path. A Bad Girl fights and forces her way to the top with style and beauty. A Bad Girl believes in jumping first and looking later. People will love you. People will hate you. Others will secretly wish to be you. A Bad Girl is you.
The bad girls typically form cliques, create havoc, book parties in night clubs, and engage in sexual antics while attempting to maintain their personal lives. They come from different backgrounds. Earlier in the series, they try to cope and adjust their behavior to become role models for young women. Some cast members try to accomplish specific goals. Throughout, the bad girls must adapt to their housemates' moods and behavioral changes. They interview in reality TV confessionals. They are allowed to contact their families and friends on landline telephones and a computer connected to