The Barefoot Executive (also known as The Rating Game) is a 1971 American comedy film starring Kurt Russell, Joe Flynn, Wally Cox, Heather North, Harry Morgan, and John Ritter (in his film debut), about a pet chimpanzee, named Raffles, who can predict the popularity of television programs. Produced by Walt Disney Productions and directed by Robert Butler, it was one of the "gimmick comedies" (geared towards children with a touch of adult humor for older viewers) Disney was known for in the 1960s and 1970s, and was frequently shown on The Wonderful World of Disney from the late 1970s through the 1980s.


== Plot ==
A satire of network television, the film follows the adventures of an ambitious mailroom clerk, Steven Post (Kurt Russell) at the fictional struggling UBC (United Broadcasting Corporation) Network. Post discovers that a chimpanzee named Raffles, left in the care of his girlfriend Jennifer Scott (Heather North) by neighbors who moved to San Francisco, has the uncanny ability to choose which television programs will succeed or fail with audiences. While watching a program, Raffles blows a raspberry at shows he hates and claps his hands at shows he likes.
Post smuggles the chimpanzee into the UBC building when various programs are being previewed for executives and watches as the chimpanzee gives his vote from the projection room. The first program that receives Raffles's approval is a film named Devil Dan. Post tells the programming executives that Devil Dan will draw large audiences. The executives disagree and choose not to program the film. To prove he's got a sure-fire way of choosing hits, Post sneaks into UBC's broadcast center to switch the reels. Executives are outraged when Devil Dan airs, but Post is proved right. The film propels UBC to first place in the ratings war. Post successfully masks the chimpanzee's abilities as his own and rises to vice president of UBC, now the top-rated area network. However, this also creates suspicion and resentment among UBC executives, mainly because they believe Post is too young to merit the title of vice president. Their resentment reaches a breaking point at a television award ceremony where Steven Post receives the title of "Television's Man of the Year" and the emcee mistakenly identifies Post as the president of UBC.
Fearing that Post's seemingly miraculous abilities will make their own jobs unnecessary, network president E. J. Crampton (Harry Morgan) and former vice-president Francis X. Wilbanks (Joe Flynn) attempt to discover his secret to success. One toady (John Ritter) sees a bunch of bananas in Post's apartment, which leads to a humorous scene where the executives are seen eating bananas as they believe an idea that a New Guinea tribe considered bananas to be brain food. The flunky also hears sounds coming from Post's closet and believes he is holding a hostage, which serves to intensify the surveillance of Post and his new luxury apartment.
Using a spyglass to peer through his apartment window at night, the toady discovers the chimpanzee watching television with Post. Upon spying the chimpanzee going to the refrigerator for a beer during the commercial break, the executives realize the chimpanzee's true abilities.
Fearing the revelation that America's favorite TV programs were being picked by an ape would spell the end of television, the executives decide to steal the chimpanzee and return it to the jungle.
Wilbanks and his chauffeur, Albert Mertons (Wally Cox), venture out a narrow ledge in an attempt to snatch the chimpanzee out of Post's apartment in his absence. The plan goes awry and the duo become stranded on the ledge until the police, the fire department, and a Catholic priest arrive, mistaking their break in for a potential suicide.
As a last-ditch effort, the network offers Post $1,000,000 in exchange for the chimpanzee, which he ultimately accepts. Jennifer becomes disenchanted with him when she finds out he sold her pet for money without her consent 