Basic Instinct is a 1992 neo-noir erotic thriller film directed by Paul Verhoeven and written by Joe Eszterhas. Starring Michael Douglas, Sharon Stone, George Dzundza, Jeanne Tripplehorn, and Wayne Knight, the film follows San Francisco police detective Nick Curran (Douglas) as he investigates the brutal murder of a wealthy rock star. During the course of the investigation, Curran becomes entangled in a passionate and intense relationship with Catherine Tramell (Stone), an enigmatic writer and the prime suspect.
The script for Basic Instinct was developed by Eszterhas in the 1980s, and it became the subject of a bidding war. Carolco Pictures secured the rights to the film and brought Verhoeven on board to direct. Stone was cast as Tramell after the role was rejected by several actresses. Production was plagued by protests and intense conflict between Eszterhas and Verhoeven.
Basic Instinct premiered in Los Angeles on March 18, 1992, and was theatrically released in the United States by TriStar Pictures on March 20, 1992. The film received mixed reviews upon its release, with praise for the performances of the cast, score, and editing, while its writing and character development were criticized. It also generated controversy due to its sexually explicit content, violence, and depiction of homosexual relationships. Despite the public protest, Basic Instinct was a commercial success, grossing $352.9 million worldwide and becoming the fourth-highest-grossing film of 1992. Due to its success and controversy, it inspired many imitators, and has been labelled as "perhaps the quintessential erotic thriller of the 1990s."
Since its release, Basic Instinct has undergone a critical reevaluation. The film has been recognized for its groundbreaking depictions of sexuality in mainstream Hollywood cinema, and was described by one scholar as "a neo-film noir masterpiece that plays with, and transgresses, the narrative rules of film noir." Numerous versions of the film have been released on videocassette, laserdisc, DVD, and Blu-ray, including a director's cut with extended footage previously unseen in North American cinemas.
A sequel, Basic Instinct 2, was released 14 years later in 2006. The film stars Stone, but was made without the involvement of Verhoeven or Douglas. It received negative reviews and was relatively unsuccessful.


== Plot ==
Homicide detective Nick Curran and his partner and best friend Gus Moran investigate the murder of retired rock star Johnny Boz in San Francisco. Boz was stabbed to death with an ice pick while having sex with a mysterious blonde woman. Nick's prime suspect is Boz's girlfriend, crime novelist Catherine Tramell, whose novel mirrors the crime. Catherine is uncooperative and taunts the investigators by smoking and exposing herself. Although she is released, Nick discovers that she has a history of befriending murderers. This includes Roxy Hardy, Catherine's girlfriend, who impulsively killed her two younger brothers at the age of 16, and Hazel Dobkins, who killed her husband and children.
Nick, who accidentally shot two tourists while high on cocaine during an undercover assignment, attends counseling sessions with Police Psychologist Dr. Beth Garner. The two have an on-and-off affair. Nick discovers that Catherine is using him as the basis for the protagonist of her latest book, in which his character is murdered after falling for the wrong woman. He becomes suspicious that she has bribed Lt. Marty Nilsen for his psychiatric file. In response, Nick assaults Nilsen in his office. Nilsen is found murdered, and Nick is suspected and placed on leave. Gus later uncovers evidence that Nilsen had been paid fifty thousand dollars three months earlier, before Nick had even met Catherine.
Nick and Catherine embark on a passionate but tense affair, much to Gus's chagrin given his suspicions about her. It starts one night when Nick sees Catherine snorting cocaine with Roxy at Boz's club. They return to Catherine's p