Basic Instinct 2 (also known as Basic Instinct 2: Risk Addiction) is a 2006 erotic thriller film and the sequel to 1992's Basic Instinct. The film was directed by Michael Caton-Jones and produced by Mario Kassar, Joel B. Michaels, and Andrew G. Vajna. The screenplay was by Leora Barish and Henry Bean. It stars Sharon Stone, who reprises her role of crime mystery author Catherine Tramell (from the original Basic Instinct), and David Morrissey. The film is an international co-production of German, British, American, and Spanish production companies.
The film follows novelist and suspected serial killer Catherine Tramell, who is once again in trouble with the authorities, this time in London. Now Scotland Yard (Greater London's Metropolitan Police Service) appoints psychiatrist Dr. Michael Glass to evaluate her. As with SFPD Detective Nick Curran in the first film, Dr. Glass becomes a victim of Tramell's psychological manipulation.
After being in development limbo for several years, the sequel film was finally shot in London from April to August 2005, and was released on 31 March 2006. Unlike its predecessor, the film received negative reviews and underperformed at the box office.


== Plot ==
In London, American best-selling author Catherine Tramell is driving with her companion, famous English football star Kevin Franks. Tramell takes Franks's hand and begins masturbating herself with it as she accelerates the car, but the semi-unconscious Franks appears unaware of what is happening. At the point of orgasm, Tramell veers off the road and crashes into the West India Docks on the Thames. She attempts to save Franks but is unable to undo the seatbelt. When questioned later by the police, she says, "When it came down to it, I guess my life was more important to me than his."
Tramell's interrogator, Scotland Yard Detective Superintendent Roy Washburn, notes that D-tubocurarine (DTC), a neuromuscular blocking agent used to relax muscles during general anaesthesia for medical surgery, was found in her car and in Franks' body and the autopsy shows he was not breathing when the crash occurred. Washburn says that a drug dealer claims he sold Tramell DTC, but Tramell counters that he is lying and has no evidence.
Tramell begins therapy sessions with Dr. Michael Glass, who has conducted a court-ordered psychiatric examination and given testimony in her case. Dr. Glass suspects Tramell is a narcissist who cannot differentiate between right and wrong. Tramell begins to manipulate Glass, who becomes increasingly frustrated and intrigued by her, although he has just begun an affair with another psychiatrist. Meanwhile, the journalist boyfriend of Glass's ex-wife, who was writing a story criticizing Glass, is found strangled to death. More murders occur around Dr. Glass, including the killing of his ex-wife. His obsession with Tramell grows, and he is increasingly unable to distinguish between right and wrong. When the police begin to suspect him of the murders, he suggests to Superintendent Washburn that Tramell is the real killer attempting to frame him. He confronts Tramell at her apartment, where they have passionate sex. Tramell gives Glass a copy of the draft of her next novel, titled The Analyst. After reading it, he realizes that Tramell has novelised most of the recent events, with Glass and herself as characters. A character based on Glass's female colleague, Dr. Milena Gardosh, is depicted as the next murder victim in the novel.
Glass runs to Dr. Gardosh's apartment, finding Tramell already there. Gardosh informs him that he is no longer in charge of Tramell's therapy and that his license will be revoked. He and Gardosh struggle, and she is knocked unconscious. Tramell then threatens Glass with a gun she carries, but Glass confiscates it from her. When Detective Superintendent Washburn arrives at the scene, Glass shoots him and points the gun at Tramell before police tackle him.
Later, Tramell visits Glass, now apparently insensible 