The Batman is a 2022 American superhero film based on the DC Comics character Batman. Produced by Warner Bros. Pictures, DC Films, 6th & Idaho, and Dylan Clark Productions, it is a reboot of the Batman film franchise. Directed by Matt Reeves from a screenplay he wrote with Peter Craig, it stars Robert Pattinson as Bruce Wayne / Batman alongside Zoë Kravitz, Paul Dano, Jeffrey Wright, John Turturro, Peter Sarsgaard, Andy Serkis, and Colin Farrell. The film sees Batman, in his second year fighting crime in Gotham City, uncover corruption with ties to his own family while pursuing the Riddler (Dano), a mysterious serial killer targeting the city's elite.
Development began after Ben Affleck was cast as Batman in the DC Extended Universe (DCEU) in 2013. Affleck signed on to direct, produce, co-write, and star in The Batman, but had reservations about the project and dropped out. Reeves took over and reworked the story, removing the DCEU connections. He sought to explore Batman's detective side more than previous films, drawing inspiration from the films of Alfred Hitchcock and the New Hollywood era, and comics such as "Year One" (1987), The Long Halloween (1996–97), and Ego (2000). Pattinson was cast in May 2019, with further casting in late 2019. Filming began in the United Kingdom in January 2020, but was halted in March by the COVID-19 pandemic. It resumed later in the year and concluded in Chicago in March 2021.
After the COVID-19 pandemic caused two delays to its original June 2021 release date, The Batman was theatrically released by Warner Bros. Pictures on March 4, 2022, three days after it premiered at the Lincoln Center in Manhattan. The film was a commercial success, grossing $771 million against a $185–200 million budget, making it the seventh-highest-grossing film of 2022. It received positive reviews from critics with praise for its acting, direction, visual style, musical score, and action sequences, with minor criticisms for the runtime. The Batman was nominated for three awards at the 95th Academy Awards, and received numerous other accolades. The film is intended to launch a Batman shared universe, and will be followed by two sequels, with The Batman – Part II set for release on October 2, 2026. Two spin-off television series for the streaming service Max will also follow, including The Penguin, starring Farrell, which will debut in late 2024.


== Plot ==
On Halloween, Gotham City mayor Don Mitchell Jr. is murdered by a masked serial killer, the Riddler. Reclusive billionaire Bruce Wayne, who has operated for two years as the vigilante Batman, investigates the murder alongside Lieutenant James Gordon much to the disdain of the Gotham City Police Department (GCPD). The Riddler has left a message for Batman at the crime scene. The following night, the Riddler kills Commissioner Pete Savage and leaves another message for Batman. Batman and Gordon discover that the Riddler left a thumb drive in Mitchell's car containing images of Mitchell with a woman, Annika Kosolov, at the Iceberg Lounge—a nightclub operated by Oswald "The Penguin" Cobblepot, who is crime boss Carmine Falcone's lieutenant. While the Penguin pleads ignorance, Batman notices that Annika's roommate Selina Kyle works at the club as a waitress. When Annika disappears, Batman sends Selina to the Iceberg Lounge for answers and discovers that Savage was on Falcone's payroll like district attorney Gil Colson.
The Riddler abducts Colson, straps a timed collar bomb to his neck and sends him to interrupt Mitchell's funeral. When Batman arrives, the Riddler calls him via Colson's phone and threatens to detonate the bomb if Colson cannot answer three riddles. Colson refuses to answer the third—the name of the informant who gave the GCPD information that led to a historic drug bust ending Salvatore Maroni's operation—and is killed. Batman and Gordon deduce that the informant may be the Penguin and track him to a drug deal. They discover that Maroni's operation tr