The Bear is an American comedy-drama television series created by Christopher Storer for FX on Hulu. Jeremy Allen White stars as Carmy Berzatto, an award-winning chef who returns to his hometown of Chicago to manage the chaotic kitchen at his deceased brother's sandwich shop. The supporting cast includes Ebon Moss-Bachrach, Ayo Edebiri, Lionel Boyce, Liza Colón-Zayas, Abby Elliott and Matty Matheson.
All episodes of the first season were released on FX on Hulu on June 23, 2022, and the second season was released in its entirety on June 22, 2023. In November 2023, the series was renewed for a third season, which will be released on June 27, 2024. Ahead of the third season premiere, the show was renewed for a fourth season, which will film back-to-back with the third season. 
The series has received critical acclaim, particularly for its writing, directing, acting, and production values, as well as its examination of its subject matter. The first season received ten Primetime Emmy Awards including Outstanding Comedy Series and acting wins for White, Moss-Bachrach, and Edebiri. The Bear has also won four Golden Globe Awards, with acting wins for White and Edebiri and the Golden Globe Award for Best Television Series – Musical or Comedy in 2024.


== Premise ==
A young chef named Carmen "Carmy" Berzatto inherits his family's Italian beef sandwich shop after the suicide of his older brother. He comes home to Chicago to run it, leaving behind his world of working in Michelin-starred restaurants. He is left to deal with his brother's unresolved debts, a rundown kitchen, and an unruly staff, while dealing with his own pain and family trauma.


== Cast ==


=== Main ===
Jeremy Allen White as Carmen "Carmy" Berzatto, an award-winning New York City chef de cuisine, who returns to his hometown of Chicago to run his late brother Michael's failing restaurant, The Beef.
Ebon Moss-Bachrach as Richard "Richie" Jerimovich, Michael's best friend and the de facto manager of the restaurant.
Ayo Edebiri as Sydney Adamu, a talented young chef who joins The Beef as its new sous-chef under Carmy.
Lionel Boyce as Marcus Brooks, The Beef's bread baker-turned-pastry chef, spurred on by Carmy's mentoring.
Liza Colón-Zayas as Tina Marrero, an acerbic and stubborn veteran line cook who embraces the opportunity to train professionally.
Abby Elliott as Natalie "Sugar" Berzatto, Carmy and Michael's sister, the reluctant co-owner of The Beef.
Matty Matheson as Neil Fak (season 2–present, recurring season 1), a childhood friend of the Berzattos, and sometimes-handyman for the restaurant.


=== Recurring ===
Edwin Lee Gibson as Ebraheim, a Somali veteran line cook at The Beef who is close with Tina.
Corey Hendrix as Gary "Sweeps" Woods, a runner at The Beef.
Oliver Platt as Jimmy "Cicero" Kalinowski, the best friend of the late father of the Berzatto siblings, whom everyone affectionately refers to as "Uncle", and the restaurant's key investor.
José Cervantes as Angel, a dishwasher at The Beef.
Richard Esteras as Manny, a dishwasher at The Beef.
Chris Witaske as Pete, Natalie's earnest and naive husband whom most of the family dislikes.
Jon Bernthal as Michael "Mikey" Berzatto, Carmy and Natalie's late brother, who struggled with drug addiction before dying by suicide four months before the events of the series.
Robert Townsend as Emmanuel Adamu (season 2), Sydney's loving and supportive father who nevertheless has trouble accepting Sydney's choice to follow an inherently risky culinary career.
Molly Gordon as Claire (seasons 2–3), a childhood friend of the Berzattos, on whom Carmy harbored a crush as a teenager.


=== Guest stars ===
Amy Morton as Nancy Chore, a scrupulous health inspector (season 1, "Hands")
Molly Ringwald as the meeting leader at the Al-Anon meetings that Carmy attends. (season 1, "Brigade")
Joel McHale as Carmy's executive chef in New York City, who was verbally abusive and dismissive.
Carmen Christopher as Chester, the roommate and close fri