"Beautiful Girls" is the debut single by American reggae-influenced musician Sean Kingston from his 2007 eponymous debut album; it was first released in 2007, when Kingston was 17. The song samples the 1961 song "Stand by Me" by American singer-songwriter Ben E. King. The song is about a boy who feels "suicidal" (or "in denial" in the edited version) over the prospect of dating a "beautiful girl". It is Kingston's signature song.
Rapper Lil Mama and actors Kenny Vibert and Lil' JJ are featured in the music video directed by Marcus Raboy, which hit 1 billion YouTube views on September 8, 2022.


== Lyrics controversy ==
Due to the lyrics containing references to suicide, the track was removed from various radio playlists including FM104 in Dublin, where complaints were phoned in on a late night chat show, The Adrian Kennedy Phoneshow, and Wild 102 in Roseau, Minnesota. It was allegedly pulled from 2FM although a spokesperson said the song was not on its playlist at the time but did not confirm if it had been prior. FM104 replaced "suicidal" with "in denial", a change Sean Kingston made for the radio station. The edited version also changed the line "Damn all these beautiful girls" to "Man, all these beautiful girls", and "When I went away for doing my first crime" became "When I'd rush back just to see you in time".


== Track listing ==
US promo CD

"Beautiful Girls" (main version) – 3:45
"Beautiful Girls" (instrumental) – 3:45
"Beautiful Girls" (a cappella) – 3:45
UK CD single

"Beautiful Girls" (album version) – 4:02
"Beautiful Girls" (a cappella) – 3:41
"Beautiful Girls" (instrumental) – 3:40
"Beautiful Girls" (remix) (featuring Fabolous and Lil' Boosie) – 3:27
"Beautiful Girls" (video)


== Official remixes ==
Official remix featuring Fabolous and Lil' Boosie – (3:28)
Official remix featuring AC – (4:12)
Official remix featuring Lil Mama – (3:50)


== Official versions ==
Main version, radio edit – 3:43
Album version, LP version – 4:02
Extended version, video version – 4:17


== Chart performance ==
The song benefited from extensive airplay before its digital release, reaching as high as number 17 on the Hot 100. On July 24, "Beautiful Girls" was accidentally leaked onto the US iTunes Store, two days before the planned release date. The week after the song's digital release it hit number one on Billboard's Hot Digital Songs, debuting with 260,000 downloads in its first week (the second highest digital sales for a new song of 2007, only behind Rihanna's "Umbrella"). Kingston became the first artist born within the 1990s to top the Hot 100, beating rapper Soulja Boy Tell 'Em to it by six weeks. It has also gone on to occupy the top spot on the US Hot 100 Airplay and the Canadian Hot 100. It remained on top of the UK Singles Chart for four weeks before being knocked off by the Sugababes' first single from their fifth studio album Change, "About You Now". The song ended 2007 as the year's 15th biggest-selling single in the UK. On the official ARIA charts in Australia, it debuted at number one but fell to number two the following week when Delta Goodrem's comeback single took the top spot. "Beautiful Girls" returned the next week and remained for a month before being replaced by Timbaland's "The Way I Are".


== Charts ==


== Certifications ==


== Covers ==
A few months after "Beautiful Girls" was released in 2007, a new online video service called Votigo began a cover contest in which fans could submit covers of the song for a chance to get a call from Sean Kingston. After an online vote user Mallory Robbins won with an a cappella version of the song. Top honors also went to a rock cover of the song performed by the Ailan Christopher Project. Shortly afterwards, singer JoJo released a cover response version of the track which was released on Myspace, however was not featured on her upcoming album. Chris Moyles also released a parody cover, however it was about the song describing how bad it was in his opinion.
The lead singe