Beautiful Thing is a 1996 British romantic comedy film directed by Hettie MacDonald and released by Channel 4 Films. The screenplay was written by Jonathan Harvey based on his own original play of the same name.
The film was originally intended for television broadcast only, but it was so well-received that it was subsequently released in cinemas. The atmosphere of the film is heavily influenced by a soundtrack consisting almost entirely of the music of The Mamas & the Papas and "Mama" Cass Elliot.


== Plot ==
The story is set and filmed in Thamesmead, a working class area of South East London dominated by post-war council estates, with a key scene in a gay pub filmed at the Greenwich Tavern in nearby Greenwich.
The main character, Jamie (Glen Berry), is a teenager who is in love with his classmate, Ste. Jamie's single mother, Sandra (Linda Henry), is pre-occupied with ambitious plans to run her own pub and has an ever-changing string of lovers; the latest of these is Tony (Ben Daniels), a neo-hippie.
Sandra finds herself at odds with Leah (Tameka Empson), a sassy and rude neighbour who has been expelled from school, takes a variety of drugs, and constantly listens and sings along to her mother's Cass Elliot records. While Jamie's homosexuality remains concealed, his introverted nature and dislike of football are reason enough for his classmates to bully him at every opportunity.
Ste (Scott Neal), who is living together with his drug-dealing brother and abusive, alcoholic father in the flat next door to Sandra and Jamie's, is beaten by his brother so badly that Sandra takes pity and lets him sleep over one night. In the absence of a third bed, Ste has to make do with sleeping 'top-to-toe' with Jamie. On the second night they share a bed, the boys change sleeping arrangements and Jamie kisses Ste for the first time.
The next morning, Ste panics, leaves the flat before Jamie has awakened, and avoids him for days. Jamie works up the nerve to steal a Gay Times from a newsagent, apparently starting to accept his sexuality and affection for Ste. Jamie finally spots Ste at a nearby party and confronts him about his sexuality; they prepare to leave together. The party ends badly, with Sandra taking vengeance on Leah for gossiping. Leah then threatens to 'spill the beans' about Ste and Jamie and confesses to having covered up for Ste in front of his father and brother. Ste reacts by angrily rejecting Jamie and running away.
Slowly, Ste accepts Jamie's love. Their relationship develops as they visit a gay pub together. Sandra follows them and discovers their secret. The film reaches its climax as a bad trip by Leah (on an unnamed drug) precipitates Sandra's breakup with Tony, the news of Sandra's new job comes out, and Sandra confronts Ste and Jamie about their relationship. Sandra comes to accept her son's sexuality.
The film ends with the two boys slow-dancing in the courtyard of their council flats to the Cass Elliot song "Dream a Little Dream of Me" while a protective Sandra dances defiantly at their side with Leah as the local residents look on. Some onlookers are shocked, some strongly disapprove and some enjoy the moment.


== Cast ==
Glen Berry as Jamie Gangel
Scott Neal as Ste Pearce
Linda Henry as Sandra Gangel
Ben Daniels as Tony
Tameka Empson as Leah Russell
Jeillo Edwards as Rose Russell
Anna Karen as Marlene
Sophie Stanton as Louise
Julie Smith as Gina
Terry Duggan as Kevin
Garry Cooper as Ronnie Pearce
Daniel Bowers as Trevor Pearce
Meera Syal as Miss Chauhan
Martin Walsh as Mr. Bennett
Steven Martin as Ryan McBride
Andrew Fraser as Jayson
John Savage as Lenny
Ozdemir Mamodeally as Slasher
John Benfield as Rodney Barr
Davyd Harries as Brewery Official
Beth Goddard as Brewery Official
Marlene Sidaway as Betty
Liane Ware as Claire
Catherine Sanderson as Kelly
Dave Lynn as Drag Performer
Jonathan Harvey as Wheelchair Queen (uncredited)


== Critical reception ==
Beautiful Thing has been mostly commended by contemporary crit