Beetlejuice Beetlejuice is an upcoming American fantasy horror comedy film directed by Tim Burton from a screenplay by the writing team of Alfred Gough and Miles Millar, based on a story by Gough, Millar, and Seth Grahame-Smith. A sequel to Beetlejuice (1988) and the second film of the Beetlejuice franchise, it stars Michael Keaton, Winona Ryder, and Catherine O'Hara reprising their roles alongside new cast members Jenna Ortega, Justin Theroux, Monica Bellucci, Arthur Conti, and Willem Dafoe.
Beetlejuice Beetlejuice is scheduled to be theatrically released in the United States by Warner Bros. Pictures on September 6, 2024.


== Premise ==
Forty years after the events of Beetlejuice, the Deetz family returns home to Winter River after an unexpected family tragedy. Lydia's life is turned upside down when her rebellious teenage daughter, Astrid, discovers the mysterious model of the town in the attic and the portal to the Afterlife is accidentally opened, releasing Betelgeuse.


== Cast ==
Michael Keaton as Betelgeuse (pronounced "Beetlejuice")
Winona Ryder as Lydia Deetz
Catherine O'Hara as Delia Deetz
Jenna Ortega as Astrid Deetz, Lydia's daughter
Justin Theroux as Rory
Monica Bellucci as Delores, Betelgeuse's ex-wife
Willem Dafoe as Wolf Jackson, a ghost detective who, in life, was a B movie action star
Burn Gorman as a reverend in Winter River
Additionally, Danny DeVito, Arthur Conti and Filipe Cates have been cast in undisclosed roles.


== Production ==


=== Development ===
In 1990, Tim Burton hired Jonathan Gems to write a Beetlejuice (1988) sequel titled Beetlejuice Goes Hawaiian. "Tim thought it would be funny to match the surfing backdrop of a beach movie with some sort of German Expressionism, because they're totally wrong together", Gems said. The story followed the Deetz family moving to Hawaii, where Charles is developing a resort. They soon discover that his company is building on the burial ground of an ancient Hawaiian Kahuna. The spirit comes back from the afterlife to cause trouble, and Betelgeuse becomes a hero by winning a surf contest with magic. Michael Keaton and Winona Ryder agreed to do the film, on the condition that Burton directed, but both he and Keaton became occupied with Batman Returns (1992).
Burton was still interested in Beetlejuice Goes Hawaiian in early 1991. Impressed with Daniel Waters' work on Heathers (1989), which also stars Winona Ryder, Burton approached him for a rewrite. However, he eventually signed Waters to write the script for Batman Returns. By August 1993, producer David Geffen hired Pamela Norris (Troop Beverly Hills, Saturday Night Live) to rewrite. Warner Bros. approached Kevin Smith in 1996 to rewrite the script, though Smith turned down the offer in favor of Superman Lives. Smith later joked that his response was "Didn't we say all we needed to say in the first Beetlejuice? Must we go tropical?" In March 1997, Gems released a statement saying "The Beetlejuice Goes Hawaiian script is still owned by The Geffen Company and it will likely never get made. You really couldn't do it now anyway. Winona is too old for the role, and the only way they could make it would be to totally recast it." Burton had considered several other sequel ideas as well over the years, saying in 2024, "We talked about lots of different things. That was early on when we were going, Beetlejuice and the Haunted Mansion, Beetlejuice Goes West, whatever. Lots of things came up."
In September 2011, Warner Bros. hired Seth Grahame-Smith, who collaborated with Burton on Dark Shadows and Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter (both 2012), to write and produce a sequel to Beetlejuice. Grahame-Smith signed on with the intention of doing "a story that is worthy of us actually doing this for real, something that is not just about cashing in, is not just about forcing a remake or a reboot down someone's throat." He was also adamant that Keaton would return and that Warner Bros. would not recast the role. Burton and Keato