Beyond the Poseidon Adventure is a 1979 American disaster film and a sequel to The Poseidon Adventure (1972) directed by Irwin Allen and starring Michael Caine and Sally Field. It was a critical and commercial failure, and was the only Allen disaster film to receive no Academy Award nominations. Its box office receipts were only 20% of its estimated $10 million budget.


== Plot ==
The capsized luxury liner S.S. Poseidon is still afloat after six survivors have been rescued by the French Coast Guard. Tugboat captain Mike Turner spots the rescue helicopter and finds the shipwreck. Accompanied by second mate Wilbur and passenger Celeste Whitman, he heads out to claim salvage rights, as the tugboat Jenny lost her cargo in the same tsunami that capsized the Poseidon.
They are soon followed by Dr. Stefan Svevo and his crew, who claim to be Greek Orthodox medics who received the ship's SOS. They board the vessel through the bottom hull opening by the French rescue team, they soon come across the fires still raging in the engine room, the red valve wheel (which Reverend Scott grabbed to shut down the steam) and they also see the body of Linda Rogo, who fell to her death in The Poseidon Adventure. Suddenly there is an explosion deep inside Poseidon, Wilbur tells Mike Turner the ship is a floating time bomb, however Turner is determined to carry on, the group with Turner soon encounters some more survivors, the ship's nurse, Gina Rowe and two passengers, elegantly dressed Suzanne Constantine and war veteran Frank Mazzetti, who is searching for his missing daughter Theresa. Theresa is found, as are elevator operator Larry Simpson and a "billionaire" called "Tex" who clings to a valuable bottle of wine. They also find the blind Harold Meredith and his wife Hannah, who were waiting to be rescued.
Water continues to submerge decks, and more explosions occur. Turner's group find the purser's office, where Svevo decides he and his men will search for other survivors, parting ways with the rest. Another explosion causes the safe in the purser's office to fall and open, revealing gold coins, diamonds and cash. Turner and Wilbur gather the coins.
Unknown to Turner and the survivors, Suzanne is actually working with Svevo. She takes a list containing information about a cargo of crates from the office. Going off on her own, she gives Svevo the document but decides to rejoin Turner's group. Svevo orders Doyle, one of his men, to kill Suzanne. After being shot, a dying Suzanne strikes Doyle with an axe, killing him. While making their way up through the decks, Turner and the others find Suzanne's corpse and realize a murderer is on board.
Hannah dislocates her shoulder while helping her husband. Svevo and his men are found gathering a cargo of plutonium. Svevo reveals that his real intention for boarding the Poseidon was to retrieve his lost shipment of plutonium, adding that he cannot let Turner and his group go now. However, before anyone is killed, another explosion occurs, allowing Turner's group to escape.
Turner, Mazzetti and Simpson find guns. In the ensuing shoot-out, Mazzetti and Castrop, another of Svevo's men, are killed. Water floods the room as Turner's group proceeds up to the next deck. An injured Hannah, unable to climb a ladder, falls into the rising water and drowns. While trying to rescue her, Turner loses all of his salvaged gold. Svevo and his one remaining gunman head back up to the ship's stern, where the rest of Svevo's team attempt to use a crane to raise the plutonium up to the hull, which is slowly sinking.
In another section of the ship, Turner and the survivors exit the ship through an underwater side door, but due to shortage of scuba tanks, Wilbur sacrifices himself by swimming underwater and disappearing. Turner and Celeste swim to the tugboat and move it closer to the Poseidon as the remaining survivors swim towards it. Svevo's men see them and open fire. Tex, who in reality was not a wealthy passenger but a sommel