Gurinder Kaur Chadha,  (born 10 January 1960) is a Kenyan-born British film director of Indian origin. Most of her films explore the lives of Indians living in England. The common theme in her work showcases the trials of Indian women residing in the UK and how they must reconcile their converging traditional and modern cultures. Although many of her films seem like simple quirky comedies about Indian women, they actually address many social and emotional issues, especially ones faced by immigrants caught between two worlds.
Much of her work also consists of adaptations from book to film, but with a different flair. She is best known for the films Bhaji on the Beach (1993), Bend It Like Beckham (2002), Bride and Prejudice (2004), Angus, Thongs and Perfect Snogging (2008), It's a Wonderful Afterlife (2010) and Viceroy's House (2017). Her latest features are the biographical musical comedy-drama Blinded by the Light (2019) and the television show Beecham House.


== Early life ==
Gurinder Chadha was born in Nairobi, Kenya, then a British colony. Her Punjabi Sikh Khatri  family was part of the Indian diaspora in East Africa. Bhajan, her father (who died in 1999), and her mother were both born in Kenya, and remained there until the political turbulence leading up to independence prompted the family to relocate. Her family held "united citizenship" under the British Nationality Act 1948 which granted them rights of entry and settlement in Britain. Her father moved first and was joined by the family the following year moving to Southall, West London, when she was two years of age, where she attended Clifton Primary School. Chadha's father faced prejudice because of his appearance as a Sikh Indian, wearing a turban and having a beard. Her father had worked as a clerical officer in Barclays Bank in Kenya but was unable to secure the same position due to his appearance.  Eventually, the family opened a shop to support the family.
Many of her future films would draw on her personal experience of being Indian and English at the same time, and how she dealt with the duality of her identity. Upon completion of her documentary, I'm British but... Chadha insisted the premiere be held at the Southall Community Center to honour her home community. She would not wear traditional Indian clothing, and refused to cook for her family. In her mind, having all the women in the kitchen cooking while the men sat and ate was oppressive, although it is a living part of Indian culture. Therefore, she sat at the table with the men and was "extremely outspoken." After graduating from the University of East Anglia where she studied politics and developmental economics before radio journalism, Chadha attended the London College of Printing in 1984/85 and studied as a post-graduate. When she decided she wanted to go to the University of East Anglia to do development studies, her teachers suggested a secretarial course, or a lesser university.


== Career ==
After beginning her media career in radio in the mid-1980s, Chadha became a BBC television news reporter. She directed award-winning documentaries for the British Film Institute, BBC and Channel Four, and in 1989 released the documentary I'm British but... for Channel 4, which followed the lives of young British Asians. In 1990, Chadha established a production company, Umbi Films having no formal film training. Her first film was the 11-minute Nice Arrangement (1991) about a British Asian wedding. It was selected for the Cannes Film Festival Critic's section in 1991.
Chadha mentions the influence that the film Purab aur Pachhim had on her work, in an interview with Robert K. Elder for The Film That Changed My Life.

There's a wonderful kind of yearning quality about what is culture and the perils of living in the West and the dangers of what could happen.
Her affinity for stories about families was also attributed to her love for It's a Wonderful Life.
She was empowered by British Bhangra music which combin