Big Momma's House is a 2000 American crime comedy film, directed by Raja Gosnell, and written by Darryl Quarles and Don Rhymer. The film stars Martin Lawrence as an FBI agent who is tasked with tracking down an escaped convict and his loot, by going undercover as the estranged grandmother of his former girlfriend, unaware of the bond he will form with her. The film also stars Nia Long, Paul Giamatti, and Terrence Howard.
Big Momma's House received mostly negative reviews from critics, but grossed over $174 million worldwide. Its success led to two sequels: Big Momma's House 2 (2006) and Big Mommas: Like Father, Like Son (2011).


== Plot ==
FBI agents Malcolm Turner and John Maxwell are assigned by their boss to track escaped convict Lester Vesco, who was serving a life sentence for murder and the armed robbery of a bank. Malcolm and John learn that Lester may be seeking to find his ex-girlfriend, Sherry Pierce, an employee of the bank who is suspected of supplying him with a key to the vault, as the money that was stolen was never recovered. Malcolm and John stake out the house of Sherry's estranged grandmother, Hattie Mae Pierce, an obese, elderly African American woman - whom her friends affectionately call Big Momma — in Cartersville, Georgia. 
While setting up hidden cameras, Malcolm is forced to hide when Big Momma rushes to the toilet, causing her to defecate quite violently as a result of eating homemade stewed prunes. He then finds out through the cameras that she is about to leave town for two weeks to care for her ill friend at the hospital. Seizing on the opportunity, Malcolm and John create a prosthetic mask and fat suit so that Malcolm can assume Big Momma's identity and infiltrate the Pierce household. To avoid suspicion, Malcolm must also maintain the real Big Momma's lifestyle. This includes dealing with her lecherous boyfriend, assuming her occupation as a midwife, and attending self-defense classes led by dim-witted security guard Nolan, whom the agents are later forced to recruit when he stumbles onto their operation. 
During this time, Malcolm bonds with Sherry and her ten-year-old son, Trent, both in disguise and in his cover story as a handyman hired by Big Momma. He finds nothing to link her to the robbery, nor to the missing money's location. After attending a church service with them, where he compels Sherry in his disguise to not hold any secrets, Malcolm finds the missing money in Trent's footlocker when he returns home to a surprise birthday party. His discovery is witnessed by Sherry, who tells him she had no idea what Lester was planning and did not report her key was stolen out of fear of being fired.
Matters soon become complicated when John discovers that the real Big Momma has returned home. In his efforts to stop her re-entering the house, John instructs Nolan to lock her out, only for the dim-witted guard to accidentally lock Malcolm out. Lester tracks Sherry down to Big Momma's house, and thinking she's betrayed him to the FBI, takes her hostage. Malcolm swiftly breaks into the house, whereupon he tackles Lester and subdues him after John is shot, but at the cost of his disguise being ruined in front of everyone, including Sherry and Trent. After Lester is arrested and the money recovered, Malcolm finds that Sherry and Trent refuse to speak to him, heartbroken by his deception. 
Seeking forgiveness, Malcolm attends the Sunday morning church service, where he gives a heartfelt speech to Sherry and Trent declaring he genuinely loves them. Big Momma forgives him for his actions, and the church crowd cheers as Malcolm and Sherry kiss, before Big Momma and the choir sing "Oh Happy Day" during the film's closing credits.


== Cast ==


== Production ==
The film was set in Georgia but filmed in Southern California in early 2000.
The prosthetic makeup used for Big Momma was created by Greg Cannom and Captive Audience. Cannom had previously created the makeup used by Robin Williams in both Mrs. Dou