Black Beauty is a 2020 adventure drama family film written, edited and directed by Ashley Avis and based on the 1877 novel of the same name by Anna Sewell. A co-production between the United States, the United Kingdom, South Africa, France and Germany, it stars Kate Winslet, Mackenzie Foy, Claire Forlani, Iain Glen and Fern Deacon and is the sixth cinematic adaptation. In the film, Black Beauty is portrayed as a mare instead of a stallion (The horse in the original story was a gelding.) and is brought to Birtwick Park where she forges a bond with a spirited teenager that carries through different chapters, challenges and adventures. Originally scheduled for a theatrical release, it was unable to be released in cinemas due to the negative effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. The film's distribution rights were acquired by Walt Disney Studios and was released on the company's streaming service Disney+ on November 27, 2020. It received mixed reviews from critics. The film was removed from Disney+ on May 26, 2023.


== Plot ==
A wild mustang narrates her life from birth, born free within the Onaqui Mountains of Utah. She explains that her mother taught that when horses pass away, they fly into the sky to rest among the stars. One day, the mustang draws the attention of some cowboys, who wrangle her herd; she never sees her mother again. A horse trainer named John Manly purchases the mustang and takes her to Birtwick, a horse sanctuary. While she likes John, the mustang refuses to cooperate, but John remains patient. The mustang befriends two other horses named Ginger and Merrylegs.
John is informed that his sister and her husband died in a car accident, leaving him to care for his niece, Jo Green. Jo wants nothing to do with John but becomes entranced with the difficult mustang. Eventually, the mustang recognizes Jo's pain as similar to her own, and they connect. Jo tames the mustang and names her Black Beauty, or Beauty for short. John gets through to Jo by having her work in the stables and tend to Beauty. They popularize the phrase "partnering" a horse as opposed to "breaking" a horse. John informs Jo that they will eventually have to sell Beauty, but Jo refuses.
One night, a fire breaks out when a stablehand doesn’t turn off a heater, and the horses are evacuated. With Birtwick losing money, Jo is concerned that Beauty will be sold but works out a deal with John's boss, Henry Gordon, so that she can work extra to earn the money to buy Beauty. The upperclass Winthorp family who are migrants from England arrive to purchase horses for their estate with the daughter Georgina immediately choosing Beauty to be leased. John convinces them to have Jo come along as her tenant. At the Earlshall estate, Beauty learns that her friend Ginger was purchased for the Winthorp's son George, who unlike Georgina, is kind and takes an interest in Jo.
Georgina is cruel and rude to Beauty, who resists the urge to harm her as it would get her and Jo in trouble. A race is held at a social gathering where Georgina's poor riding results in Beauty injuring a leg. George stands up to his mother, and the Winthorps return Beauty. However, John informs Jo that Birtwick is closing and all the horses have to be sold. Beauty is taken away without Jo getting a chance to say goodbye. She becomes determined to find and buy her again.
Beauty is sold to a ranger named Terry, and they go on rescue missions in the wilderness. Eventually Terry retires, and Beauty is given to a farmer who uses old tools, forcing her to work harder. Then she is sold to a kind carriage driver in New York City whose daughter names her Lady. One night, Beauty is reunited with Ginger, who had been sold without George's knowledge, but she dies shortly afterwards.
When Jerry gets sick, Beauty is sold to another carriage company, which treats its horses cruelly and engages in illegal horse trading. While out driving, Beauty spots Ginger's body being taken away. Heartbroken, Beauty sits on the road