"Blame It on Lisa" is the fifteenth episode of the thirteenth season of the American animated television series The Simpsons.
Written by Bob Bendetson and directed by Steven Dean Moore, "Blame It on Lisa" features several references to popular culture, including a parody of the Brazilian children's television host Xuxa and an allusion to the film A Trip to the Moon. When it originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on March 31, 2002, it was seen by around eleven million people. In 2010, the episode was released on DVD and Blu-ray along with the rest of the episodes of the thirteenth season.
"Blame It on Lisa" attracted controversy in Brazil because of its inclusion of clichés and stereotypes, including frequent depictions of crime, slums and rat infestations, as well as cultural inaccuracies. Riotur, the tourist board of Rio de Janeiro, planned on taking legal action against Fox for damaging the international image of the city. James L. Brooks, executive producer of The Simpsons, soon issued an apology to Rio de Janeiro.


== Plot ==

Marge discovers that the Simpson family has run up a $400 telephone bill due to a call to Brazil. After the phone company cuts off the family's service for non-payment and Homer repeatedly injures himself trying to restore it, Lisa admits that she made the call in order to stay in touch with Ronaldo, an orphan boy she has been sponsoring. She had been receiving monthly letters from him until recently; when they stopped, she called the orphanage where he was staying and was told that he had gone missing. When Lisa plays a videotaped message from Ronaldo, telling her that he used her money to buy a pair of dancing shoes, Homer, Marge, and Bart decide to fly to Brazil with her and find him. They leave Maggie in the care of Patty and Selma.
Once the Simpsons arrive in Rio de Janeiro, they begin searching for Ronaldo—first in the city's slums, then at his orphanage—but without success. When they split into pairs to cover more ground, Homer and Bart are robbed by a gang of children and later kidnapped in a taxicab. Bart escapes to tell Marge and Lisa, and the kidnappers take Homer to a hideout within the Brazilian rainforest and demand $50,000 for his release. Unable to pay the ransom themselves or to borrow the money from anyone in Springfield, the remaining three Simpsons begin looking for Homer. They get caught up in a Carnaval parade, during which Lisa finds Ronaldo—now working as a flamingo-costumed dancer on a popular children's television program. He explains that the shoes he bought led to this job and a high salary, and gives the Simpsons the $50,000 they need, noting that he keeps all his earnings since he has no parents who can steal from him.
When they arrive at a meeting point arranged by the kidnappers—on adjacent aerial lift cars above Sugarloaf Mountain—they find that Homer has developed Stockholm syndrome and made a scrapbook to remember his kidnapping. They throw the money across and Homer jumps to the family's car, only for the cables to break and send them tumbling down the mountainside. They survive unharmed, and Homer thanks his family for being there to get him out of trouble. Bart is immediately swallowed whole by an anaconda, but is not troubled and begins dancing to samba music.


== Production ==

"Blame It on Lisa" was written by Bob Bendetson and directed by Steven Dean Moore as part of the thirteenth season of The Simpsons (2001–2002). For the scenes taking place in Brazil, the animators based much of their work on photographs taken by a staff member who had previously visited the country. This episode is not the first in which the Simpsons travel to a location outside of the United States. Throughout the series, they have visited Antarctica, Aruba, Australia, Canada, China, Costa Rica, Cuba, Denmark, France, Iceland, India, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Mexico, the Netherlands, Peru, South Korea, Spain, Tanzania and the United Kingdom. Their visit to Brazi