Paws of Fury: The Legend of Hank is a 2022 animated martial arts comedy film directed by Rob Minkoff, Mark Koetsier and Chris Bailey (in Koetsier and Bailey's feature directorial debut). A loose remake of the 1974 live-action film Blazing Saddles, it stars the voices of Michael Cera, Ricky Gervais, George Takei, Gabriel Iglesias, Michelle Yeoh and Samuel L. Jackson with supporting roles done by Mel Brooks, Aasif Mandvi, and Djimon Hounsou. The film takes place in a world of anthropomorphic animals, in which a dog named Hank learns to become a samurai to save a cat village from a conniving landlord.
The project was first announced by producer Yair Landau in 2010 as Blazing Samurai in response to the then-recent trend of westernizing Asian films. The development of the film continued between 2014 and 2016 with Mass Animation handling production and Open Road Films acquiring the United States distribution rights before dropped out in 2017, following the closure of Open Road Films. It was later re-announced in November 2019 after Aniventure joined as the new producing studio with a planned 2021 release. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, much of the final animation was done remotely from the crew's homes as were some of the voice recordings.
Paws of Fury: The Legend of Hank was scheduled to be released in 2017, but was delayed several times, mainly due to distributor changes and the COVID-19 pandemic. It eventually premiered in Los Angeles on July 10, 2022, and was released in the United States on July 15, by Paramount Pictures under the Nickelodeon Movies imprint, and in the United Kingdom on July 22, by Sky Cinema. The film received mixed reviews from critics and grossed $42 million worldwide.


== Plot ==
In a land inspired by feudal Japan and entirely inhabited by cats, Ika Chu, a conniving high ranking official of the land's Shogun, desires to expand his giant palace. However, it resides right next to the impoverished village of Kakamucho. Hoping to get rid of it, Ika Chu plans to force Kakamucho's residents to abandon their town by sending a gang of thugs led by his second-in-hand Ohga to trash the town. The townspeople demand that the Shogun appoint a new samurai to protect them after the previous one flees. Ika Chu, hoping to offend the townspeople, decides to appoint Hank, a dog prisoner about to be executed, as Kakamucho's samurai.
After an initial hostile reception, Hank relies on the assistance of Jimbo, a catnip-addled samurai who reluctantly agrees to train him, in order to overcome the townspeople's hostility. While training, Hank subdues Sumo, an immensely strong henchman that Ika Chu sent to drive out the townspeople quicker, with the help of Jimbo. The townspeople start to see Hank as a hero, but his newfound popularity ends up going to Hank's head and he neglects his training, which causes a fallout between him and Jimbo.
Ika Chu takes Hank to a private nightclub in order to distract him while secretly bribing people to respect Hank. At the same time, Ohga leads the bandits to trash Kakamucho. Hank returns to a devastated town. After a heated argument with Jimbo, he decides to go home. Halfway to the harbor, Hank finds an origami figure of himself in his belongings which reminds him of his samurai oath.
Jimbo attempts to storm Ika Chu's palace in hopes to free Sumo, who was captured by Ika Chu's henchmen. Hank returns in order to help him out. Upon hearing about Sumo's escape, Ika Chu recruits an army of thugs to get rid of Kakamucho for good. Hank returns to Kakamucho, and explains his plan to defeat Ika Chu's army.
The townspeople then build a perfect paper copy of the town and themselves as a diversion. When the raiders attack the fake town and its population of dummies, which have been booby-trapped with dynamite, Hank ignites the bombs and the townspeople attack the thugs. The Shogun arrives who questions the ruckus. He does remember Jimbo who states that nothing went wrong the day he injured his in-laws at his 