Blood Simple is a 1984 American independent neo-noir crime film written, edited, produced, and directed by Joel and Ethan Coen, and starring John Getz, Frances McDormand, Dan Hedaya, and M. Emmet Walsh. Its plot follows a Texas bartender who is having a love affair with his boss’s wife. When his boss discovers the affair, he hires a private investigator to kill the couple. It was the directorial debut of the Coens and the first major film of cinematographer Barry Sonnenfeld, who later became a director, as well as the feature-film debut of McDormand.
The film's title derives from the Dashiell Hammett novel Red Harvest (1929), in which the term "blood simple" describes the addled, fearful mind-set of people after prolonged immersion in violent situations. Stylistically, the film has been noted for its blending elements of neo-noir, pulp crime stories, and low-budget horror films. In 2001, a director's cut was released, the same year that it was ranked No. 98 on AFI's 100 Years...100 Thrills.


== Plot ==
In Texas, bartender Ray and housewife Abby drive through a downpour at night, discussing Abby's bad marriage to Julian Marty, who is Ray's boss. After admitting they are attracted to each other, they stop at a motel and have sex. Loren Visser, a private detective, takes photos of the tryst and delivers them to Marty. When a mysterious caller informs the couple they are being watched, Abby goes home and grabs some belongings, including a small pistol Marty gave her. Despite being warned by Abby to stay away from the bar, Ray goes there to demand his back pay from Marty. Angry and humiliated, Marty mockingly tells Ray that Abby will betray him the way she did to Marty, and when confronted she will say, "I haven't done anything funny."
After a botched attempt at kidnapping Abby from Ray's home, a newly-humiliated Marty again meets with Visser, offering him $10,000 to kill Abby and Ray. Visser agrees, telling Marty to "go fishing" in Corpus Christi to establish an alibi. Visser breaks into Ray's home and steals Abby's gun, and then calls Marty to tell him the job is done. When Marty returns, Visser meets him at the bar to collect his payment, showing Marty photos of the murdered couple as evidence. When Marty opens the safe to get the money for Visser, he surreptitiously places one of the murder photos inside. As Marty hands over the photos and the money, Visser shoots him with Abby's gun, drops the gun and grabs the money. As Visser exits, he carelessly leaves his cigarette lighter at the bar.
It is then revealed that Visser doctored photos of the couple asleep to look as if he shot them. Ray, deciding to confront Marty about his wages again, returns to the bar and discovers his body, accidentally discharging Abby's gun when he steps on it. Assuming Abby had murdered Marty, Ray puts the gun in Marty's coat pocket and the body in the backseat of his car. While driving, he is shocked to discover that Marty is still alive, albeit barely. Ray drives into a field and begins to bury Marty in a shallow grave. Finding the gun, Marty takes aim and pulls the trigger three times, falling on an empty chamber each time. Ray gingerly takes the gun and finishes burying Marty alive as he screams in terror.
A distraught Ray goes to Abby's new apartment and tries to explain that he "cleaned it all up." Abby, oblivious to Marty's shooting and unnerved by the blood on Ray's clothes, says, "I haven't done anything funny," which disturbs him further and leads to an argument. Visser calls the apartment but does not speak when Abby picks up; she assumes and tells Ray that it was Marty. Horrified, Ray places her gun on a table near the door as he leaves. Later, he is confronted by Meurice, another bartender, who tells him about a phone message Marty left regarding money stolen from the safe (Marty's cover story for the $10,000 he paid Visser). 
While burning the doctored photos, Visser realizes that Marty kept one and that he cannot find his lighter. Know