Blue in the Face is a 1995 American comedy film directed by Wayne Wang and Paul Auster. It stars Harvey Keitel leading an ensemble cast, including Giancarlo Esposito, Roseanne Barr, Michael J. Fox, Lily Tomlin, Victor Argo, Mira Sorvino, Lou Reed, Keith David, Jim Jarmusch, Jared Harris, RuPaul, and Madonna.
Blue in the Face was filmed over a five-day period as a follow-up to Wang's 1995 film Smoke. During production of Smoke, Keitel and the others ad-libbed scenes in-character between takes and a sequel was made using this improvised material.
Lily Tomlin was nominated for an American Comedy Award as "Funniest Supporting Actress in a Motion Picture" for her performance in this picture.
Blue in the Face features songs by singer Selena.  Her bilingual duet with David Byrne, "God's Child (Baila Conmigo)", appears on the film's soundtrack.


== Plot ==
The film once again centers on the Brooklyn Cigar Store and manager Auggie (Harvey Keitel), although most of the other characters are different. The store owner's frustrated wife Dot (Roseanne Barr) is one of them, and one of the plotlines follows her attempts to seduce Auggie. Madonna, Michael J. Fox, Lily Tomlin and Lou Reed as himself also put in appearances.


== Cast ==
Harvey Keitel as Augustus "Auggie" Wren
Victor Argo as Vinnie
Keith David as Jackie Robinson
Giancarlo Esposito as Tommy Finelli
Michael J. Fox as Pete Maloney
Mel Gorham as Violet
Jared Harris as Jimmy Rose
Jim Jarmusch as Bob
Madonna as Singing Telegram Girl
Lou Reed as Man With Strange Glasses
Michael Badalucco as Statistician
Roseanne Barr as Dot
Mira Sorvino as Young Lady
Lily Tomlin as Waffle Eater
Malik Yoba as Watch Man
Rupaul as Dance Leader


== Reception ==
The film received mixed reviews. On Rotten Tomatoes, the film has a rating of 43% based on reviews from 23 critics, with an average rating of 5.7/10.
Roger Ebert of the Chicago Sun Times gave the film 2.5 out of 4 stars, remarking that the movie "was shot in six days, and sometimes feels like it…Some of the bits work and others don't, but no one seems to be keeping score, and that's part of the movie's charm. Ebert also notes that "Smoke is, of course, a much better film, and if you haven't seen it, then you should start there and not here. Blue in the Face is more of a footnote."


== References ==


== External links ==
Blue in the Face at IMDb 
Blue in the Face at AllMovie
Blue in the Face at Box Office Mojo
Blue in the Face at Rotten Tomatoes
FilmCritic.com review