Sky blue refers to a collection of shades comparable to that of a clear daytime sky. Typically it is a shade of cyan or light teal, though some iterations are closer to light blue. The term (as "sky blew") is attested from 1681. A 1585 translation of Nicolas de Nicolay's 1576 Les navigations, peregrinations et voyages faicts en la Turquie includes "the tulbant [turban] of the merchant must be skie coloured".

Displayed at right is the web colour sky blue.


== Variations ==


=== Celeste ===

Celeste (Spanish: [θeˈleste, se-], Italian: [tʃeˈlɛste], English: ) is the colloquial name for the pale turquoise blue colour. The same word, meaning "of the sky", is used in Spanish, Portuguese and Italian for the colour. Etymologically, it is derived by Latin term caelestis, that means del cielo in Italian. There are two "conventional" colours denominated celeste, according to the color models. One is the pure Celeste, (HEX#B2FFFF; RGB 178,255,255) which may be referred as the "true" celeste as it is traditionally or officially understood; in English, it may also be referred to as Italian sky blue (blu cielo italiano) and Bianchi Green, referring to Bianchi, the famous italian company for bikes, the first in the history of vehicles, whose colour is caracteristic. The Japanese equivalent is known as sora iro or mizuiro, referring to the colour of the sky or its reflection on the sea. The other one is also another conventional celeste (HEX #99cbff and RGB 153,203,255) containing 100% of blue, associated to a more generic color of the sky and remembering a type of light zenithal blue and the next sky blue gradations.

Celeste, that is, the pure Celeste strictly speaking (HEX #B2FFFF; RGB 178,255,255) from here on (and which can be thought as the "true" or "conventional" celeste), is a gradation of the cyan and a cold color. It is the colour of the sky with optimal visibility, when it is clear, perfectly or near-perfectly cloudless and sunny with an optimal quantity of humidity, absence or optimal quantity of atmospheric dust, aerosol/particulates with a good or at least moderate AIQ (Air Quality Index), absence of mist, haze, resulting in a good diffusion of light blue without saturation, which causes the prevalence of the white or of the warm colours of sunrise and sunset; in these excellent conditions, it is possible to see Celeste and its variations perpendicularly to the sun, toward the horizon, where the sunlight is maximum as the sky is directly illuminated, and these shades merge with the golden light of solar rays and the white of the horizon, both in the morning and afternoon, or even across the entire region between the star and the horizon, when the star is high, relatively next to solar or true noon. In particular, in the warm seasons, with the inclination of a hemisphere with respect to the sun, there are simultaneously the optimization of sunlight, daylight hours, and so the pure celeste might be visible in the entire region between the horizon and sun both in the morning and afternoon; generally, the higher the sun is during the day and the year, the less visible celeste and variations will be. In particular, in the morning across the sun and the horizon in the early hours with the rising of the star, sometimes even until noon, until they are reduced to a few stripes on the horizon, where the cyan is more intense. In the afternoon, it is the opposite and the pure celeste and similar gradations could be widely visible between the sun and horizon when the star is high, but starting to go down, that is especially in the early afternoon hours. Instead, in the cold season, with a low sun and sunlight, the pure celeste may be visible only at the horizon, where the cyan is more intense for the maximum light, but is more difficult because of the major weather instability. In anyway, since sunlight is strongest at the horizon, that is where the pure celeste is more evident, producing the tonalities of the cyan, very close to the whit