This is a list of notable body parts of people. It includes specific, individual instances of organs and appendages which are famous in their own regard. Many noted body parts are of dubious provenance and most are removed post-mortem, some after being stolen (body snatching).
In some faiths, veneration of the dead may include the preservation of body parts as relics. Body parts supposed to belong to major religious figures are kept in temples, including the tooth of the Buddha, Muhammad's beard, and Jesus's foreskin. Preservation of body parts is particularly popular within the Roman Catholic Church, where the relics are often housed in reliquaries and lipsanothecae. A cult of relics emerged in the Middle Ages.
In the West, most body parts preserved prior to the Age of Enlightenment belonged to saints, though heart-burial (burying the heart separately from the body) was not uncommon for the elite in medieval Europe. As preservation methods and the anatomical sciences developed, parts of scientists were increasingly preserved, especially brains. In the 19th century, the pseudoscience of phrenology led to an increased interest in heads and skulls.
In many cases the body parts were removed from the body of the person in question at some point and used for research or put on display. Other noted body parts have included those of soldiers who have lost limbs during battle and the heads or brains of criminals.


== Table of body parts ==
This list excludes fossils, archaeological discoveries, and body parts of living people.


== See also ==


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Edge, Suzie (2023). Vital Organs: A History of the World's Most Famous Body Parts. Wildfire. ISBN 978-1-03-540458-2.
Murphy, Edwin (1998). After the Funeral: The Posthumous Adventures of Famous Corpses. Barnes & Noble. ISBN 978-0-7607-0924-5.
Petras, Kathryn; Petras, Ross (2022). A History of the World Through Body Parts: The Stories Behind the Organs, Appendages, Digits, and the Like Attached to (or Detached from) Famous Bodies. San Francisco: Chronicle Books. ISBN 978-1-79720-284-6.