Boomerang is an American cable television network and subscription video on-demand over-the-top streaming service owned by Warner Bros. Discovery U.S. Networks, a subsidiary of Warner Bros. Discovery. It primarily features animated programming from the Warner Bros. Animation library (including Warner Bros. Cartoons and Hanna-Barbera productions among others), as well as contemporary reboots of classic franchises.
Boomerang debuted in 1992 as a programming block on Cartoon Network, and was originally dedicated to classic animation. The block was eventually spun-off into its own separate network in 2000, and by the late 2000s, began airing more modern and contemporary programming, including reruns of Cartoon Network original series. A 2015 relaunch aimed to promote Boomerang as a "second flagship" brand alongside Cartoon Network, and saw the network produce its own original programming; with a focus on reboots of franchises such as Looney Tunes and Scooby-Doo. In 2017, as the cable network was losing coverage, Boomerang launched its own standalone SVOD app.
As of November 2023, the Boomerang cable network is available to approximately 26,000,000 pay television households in the United States; down from its 2019 peak of 47,000,000 households.


== History ==


=== Background and early years ===

The Turner Broadcasting System had built up an extensive catalogue of MGM and early Warner Brothers cartoons since the 1980s. The library made up much of the extensive children's programming on TBS and TNT, which was phased out after the creation of the Cartoon Network on October 1, 1992. Boomerang was created as a new home for these and similar programming, originating as a programming block on Cartoon Network on December 8, 1992. The block originally aired for four hours every weekend, but the block's start time had changed frequently. The Saturday block moved to into the afternoon, then back to the early morning while the Sunday block moved to the evenings. Eventually, Boomerang was shortened by an hour, reducing it from four hours to three each weekend.
With Cartoon Network downplaying its archival programming in favor of newer original series, Turner launched the Boomerang cable channel on April 1, 2000. The Cartoon Network block continued to run under the new cable channel's branding until October 3, 2004.


=== Relaunch ===
On February 4, 2014, as part of the 2014 upfronts, it was announced that Boomerang would become an advertising-supported network, and that there were plans to expand the brand globally. In October of that year, a global rebranding was unveiled. The new branding was first launched in Latin America in late September, before arriving in the United States on January 19, 2015. As part of the expansion, Boomerang would introduce original programming for the first time, which would place a particular focus on the most well-known franchises from the Warner archives with an explicitly family-friendly approach. Turner executives described the changes as being an effort to grow Boomerang into a "second flagship" on par with the Cartoon Network.
On March 7, 2017, Boomerang announced the launch of its branded SVOD streaming service. The service would feature 5000+ titles from Hanna-Barbera and Warner Bros, as well as exclusive original programming. The SVOD launched on April 11, 2017, and was available for either for $4.99 per month or $39.99 annually. New episodes and content were planned to be added to the service on a weekly basis. 
On November 13, 2018, Boomerang launched a channel on the VRV streaming service. That same year, the 3rd Annual Shorty Social Good Awards nominated Boomerang and the Captain Planet Foundation for Best in Entertainment.


== Programming ==

As of June 2024, Boomerang's cable network currently airs a mix of classic cartoons and various re-imaginings of such franchises from the Warner Bros' animation archives , as well as reruns (and has simulcasted premieres and finales) of programming aired on 