The Boondock Saints II: All Saints Day is a 2009 American vigilante action thriller film written and directed by Troy Duffy, based on a story by Duffy and his brother Taylor. A sequel to The Boondock Saints (1999), the film stars Sean Patrick Flanery, Norman Reedus, Clifton Collins Jr., Julie Benz, Peter Fonda, and Billy Connolly. Set eight years after the events of the first film, it follows Irish fraternal twin brothers Connor and Murphy MacManus (Flanery and Reedus) living a quiet life in Ireland with their father Noah, formerly known as "Il Duce" (Connolly). However, when an assassin frames the twins for the murder of a Catholic priest, they return to Boston and join forces with Mexican underground fighter Romeo (Collins, Jr.) and FBI Special Agent Eunice Bloom (Benz), a former protégée of Paul Smecker.
The Boondock Saints II: All Saints Day had its world premiere in Boston on October 19, 2009, and was theatrically released in the United States on December 11, 2009. Despite negative reviews from critics, the film was a modest success at the box office, grossing $10.6 million against its $8 million budget. A sequel is currently in development, with Flanery and Reedus expected to return.


== Plot ==

After the MacManus twins, Connor and Murphy, and their father, Noah (Il Duce), assassinated Joe Yakavetta, they fled to Ireland. Eight years later, their uncle Father Sibeal arrives to inform them that a renowned Boston priest was murdered by a mysterious assassin who attempted to frame the Saints by using their ritual assassination style. In response, the twins dig up their old gear and weapons and depart for the United States.
En route to Boston aboard a container ship, the twins meet a Mexican underground fighter named Romeo, who recognizes them as the Saints. Romeo convinces them to let him join them as their new partner. Hearing a radio broadcast regarding Joe's son, Concezio Yakavetta, they deduce that he must have hired the hitman who killed the priest to draw them out of hiding.
Meanwhile, Detectives Greenly, Dolly, and Duffy are at the scene of the priest's murder. They are greeted by Special Agent Eunice Bloom, the protégée of Paul Smecker (who has died) who has been assigned to investigate the murder and determine whether or not the Saints are responsible. She comes to the conclusion that the Saints were not who murdered the cleric, and begins an investigation to find the real assassin. She and the other officers find out the assassin is Ottilio Panza, a man who appears to be working for a mysterious man known only as "The Old Man".
Connor, Murphy, and Romeo hit a warehouse that is being used by a Chinese Triad gang to process heroin for Yakavetta. After killing everyone at the warehouse, Connor and Murphy reunite with their old bartender friend, Doc. They learn that the assassin was an independent contractor and that Yakavetta himself is hiding in the Prudential Tower. Later at the warehouse, now a crime scene, Bloom confirms that the Saints have returned. Bloom interrupts a massage in progress and hits a mob boss with a paddle, displaying her identity.
The twins and Romeo have one of Yakavetta's caporegimes named Gorgeous George set up a meeting with a group of mobsters at a bar, where they kill them. Panza arrives shortly after and attempts to ambush the twins, but Bloom arrives in time to save them by wounding Panza, who then flees. Bloom introduces herself, revealing her intentions to help the Saints in Smecker's place. The group then cleans up the crime scene to make it look as if the mobsters had turned on each other. Later, Bloom reunites the other detectives with the Saints, thus bringing them in on their plans.
Yakavetta calls a meeting with his crew, during which the Saints arrive and kill everyone, including Yakavetta. Bloom interrogates Yakavetta's consigliere Jimmy and learns of the Old Man's involvement with Panza. The crime scene is visited by FBI Special Agent Kuntsler, who takes over the gang murder