Born Yesterday is a play written by Garson Kanin which premiered on Broadway in 1946, starring Judy Holliday as Billie Dawn. The play was adapted into
a successful 1950 film of the same name.


== Plot ==
An uncouth, corrupt rich junk dealer, Harry Brock, brings his showgirl mistress Billie Dawn with him to Washington, D.C. When Billie's ignorance becomes a liability to Brock's business dealings, he hires a journalist, Paul Verrall, to educate his girlfriend. In the process of learning, Billie Dawn realizes how corrupt Harry is and begins interfering with his plans to bribe a Congressman into passing legislation that would allow Brock's business to make more money.


== Productions ==


=== 1946 Original Broadway ===
Born Yesterday opened on February 4, 1946 on Broadway at the Lyceum Theatre and ran there until November 6, 1948; the play transferred to Henry Miller's Theatre on November 9, 1948 and closed on December 31, 1949, after a total of 1,642 performances. As of 2019 it was the seventh longest-running non-musical play in Broadway history. Judy Holliday starred as Billie, with Paul Douglas as Harry Brock and Gary Merrill as Paul Verrall. Written and directed by Garson Kanin, the scenic design was by Donald Oenslager and costume design by Ruth Kanin. Jean Arthur was originally cast in the role of Billie but quit during tryouts.
For his performance as Harry Brock, Paul Douglas was awarded the 1946 Clarence Derwent Award for the most promising male performance.

Original Broadway cast
Paul Douglas – Harry Brock
Judy Holliday – Billie Dawn
Gary Merrill – Paul Verrall
Carroll Ashburn – The Assistant Manager
Frank Otto – Eddie Brock
Larry Oliver – Senator Norval Hedges
Mona Bruns – Mrs. Hedges
C. L. Burke – Waiter
Ellen Hall – Helen
Judy Holliday appeared as Billie Dawn in over 1,200 performances. Her replacements in the role included Jean Hagen and Jan Sterling.


=== Revival by Princeton University's Summer Theater in 1950 ===
A production staged at Princeton University's McCarter Theatre, directed  by Herbert Kenwith and starring Shelley Winters as Billie Dawn and Judson Pratt as Harry Brock, debuted June 19, 1950 and was enthusiastically received by Daily Home News critic Jack Lewis, who notes that "Kenwith's direction is in no small way responsible for the success of the show. More notable, however, is his selection of Shelley Winters and Judson Pratt to play the key roles. And their handling of these assignments is what made 'Born Yesterday' a laugh-filled experience for last night's audience." A brief tour of New England venues—necessarily limited by Winters' prior commitment—ensued, to similarly glowing reviews.


=== Revival by the Negro Drama Group in 1953–54 ===
A production mounted by the Negro Drama Group at Broadway's President Theatre, starring Edna Mae Robinson as Billie Dawn, Powell Lindsay as Harry Brock and Henry Scott as Paul Verrall, was given a full review in The New York Times on January 1, 1954, with the theatre critic (signature L. C.) mentioning that "...Mrs. Robinson is in private life the wife of Sugar Ray Robinson, the former welterweight and middleweight champion of the world" and that she "...is possessed of a natural flair for comedy. With some judicious direction she could go a long way toward achieving spectacular success in the theatre." Although the production received positive reviews, it closed after five days.


=== Watergate Era ===
According to theatre scholar Jordan Schildcrout, the Watergate scandal brought renewed interest in Born Yesterday, with a surge of productions in the early 1970s starring Betty Grable, Sandy Dennis, Chita Rivera, and Karen Valentine at major regional theatres, as well as Lynn Redgrave in a London revival directed by Tom Stoppard. The critic Michael Billington noted, "With the Watergate scandal coming to a head, the play suddenly seems as fresh and relevant as the day it was written." Kanin himself later asserted, "When the play was written it was a fable, but