Born American (Finnish: Jäätävä polte also known as Arctic Heat) is a 1986 Finnish film directed by Renny Harlin. It was originally supposed to star Chuck Norris but he backed out when filming was delayed by funding problems and his son, Mike Norris, landed the lead instead. A Finnish production, this was at that time the most expensive film ever to have been made in Finland. The Finnish Board of Film Classification initially banned the movie due to its excessive violence and anti-Soviet elements. Because of that, the movie had to be shortened 3.5 minutes before it was finally accepted for distribution October 29, 1986 with the Supreme Court decision. The premiere was December 19, 1986. The success of the film in the United States allowed Harlin to get his foot in the door in Hollywood, giving him his first American directorial work in the 1987 horror film Prison.
In his 2008  book Kohti sinipunaa, Juhani Suomi revealed that the request to ban the movie originated from Vladimir Sobolev, the Soviet Union's ambassador to Finland.


== Plot ==


== Cast ==
Mike Norris as Savoy Brown
Steve Durham as Mitch Sheppard
David Coburn as K.C.
Piita Vuosalmi as Nadja Kulakova
Vesa Vierikko as Kapsky
Thalmus Rasulala as Admiral
Albert Salmi as US Ambassador Drane
Ismo Kallio as Zarkov
Marjo Vuollo as Tamara
Laura Munsterhjelm as Irina
Antti Horko as Cossack
Pauli Virtanen as Sergei
Jone Takamaki as Interrogator
Inkeri Luoma-Aho as Female Guard
Markku Blomqvist as Irina's Father
Sari Havas as Girl At Party
Rapa Ripa as KGB Agent (uncredited)
Mats Helge Olsson as Priest (uncredited)
Stack Pierce as Admiral (voice) (uncredited)
Renny Harlin as Man's Voice From Ship's Loudspeaker (voice) (uncredited)


== North America box office ==
Born American was released in North America over the Labor Day Weekend in 1986. It was the ninth biggest movie that weekend, earning $2.2 million in 1,071 theaters. The film's overall box office take was $3,388,020.


== References ==


== External links ==
Born American at IMDb 
Born American at AllMovie
Born American at Box Office Mojo
Born American at Rotten Tomatoes
Fedorov, Alexander. The Analysis of Stereotypes of Politically Engaged Media Texts in Media Studies in Student Audience (by the Example of Renny Harlin’s films “Born American” (1986) and “Five Days of War” (2011)