That's My Boy is a 2012 American black comedy film directed by Sean Anders, written by David Caspe, and produced by Adam Sandler, Jack Giarraputo, Heather Parry, and Allen Covert. It stars Sandler and Andy Samberg in the lead roles, with Leighton Meester, Vanilla Ice, Tony Orlando, Will Forte, Milo Ventimiglia, Susan Sarandon, and James Caan in supporting roles. The film follows Donny Berger (Sandler), a middle-aged alcoholic who once enjoyed celebrity status for being at the center of a teacher-student statutory rape case, as he tries to rekindle his relationship with his adult son, Todd Peterson/Han Solo Berger (Samberg), born as the result of that illicit relationship, in hopes that their televised reunion will earn him enough money to avoid going to prison for his tax debts.
Produced by Sandler's Happy Madison Productions in association with Relativity Media, That's My Boy was released in the United States on June 15, 2012, by Columbia Pictures. It was a critical and commercial failure, grossing only $57 million against a $57–70 million budget.


== Plot ==
In Massachusetts 1984, Donny Berger flirts with his middle school teacher, Mary McGarricle, who is repulsed by his actions and gives him a month's detention. However, in detention, Mary seduces Donny and they begin a sexual relationship, which is discovered during an auditorium speech. Subsequently, Mary is sentenced to 30 years in prison for statutory rape while the scandal makes Donny famous. After Mary is also revealed to be pregnant, custody of their unborn son is given to Donny's abusive father until Donny turns 18 to assume full custody.
Twenty-seven years later, Donny is an alcoholic and broke slacker who owes $43,000 to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in back taxes. To avoid spending three years in prison for this, he places a $20 bet on an 8000:1 runner in an upcoming race but decides to make a back-up plan should the runner lose. Meanwhile, he has also been estranged from his now-adult son for the past 10 years. To avoid contact with his parents and others discovering the family connection, their son changed his name from Han Solo Berger to Todd Peterson and told others that his parents died in an explosion. Now a successful businessman, Todd has recently arrived at the Cape Cod house of his boss, Steve Spirou, where he is to marry his fiancée, Jamie.
Randall Morgan, a television producer who worked with Donny during his time as a celebrity, offers him $50,000 if he can organize a reunion with Todd and Mary. Informed of Todd's upcoming wedding in a newspaper, Donny arrives at Cape Cod. Todd, who did not expect the visit, pretends Donny is an old friend, and Donny's popularity with the guests annoys him. He initially refuses to see Mary, but after Donny convinces Jamie's family to have the wedding rehearsal away from churches and Todd's friends to have the bachelor party at a strip club, Todd reconciles with him and agrees to the prison meeting. However, as a television crew arrives to film in the middle of Todd and Mary's encounter, Todd leaves in disgust without signing a release form.
Donny then finds out Jamie is having affairs with Steve and her brother, Chad, which she hides by giving Todd a cover story and paying Donny $50,000 to not tell anyone. However, Donny feels guilty for withholding the truth, and he interrupts the wedding just in time to reveal his biological connection to Todd and demands Jamie reveal her infidelity and incest. Todd breaks up with Jamie, accepts Donny as his father, quits his job, and reclaims his birth name, Han Solo.
Han Solo later begins dating strip club bartender Brie and offers Donny the money, but Donny declines, insisting on taking responsibility for his actions. While preparing to go to prison to rekindle his relationship with Mary after his sentence is over, the bet he placed on the marathon wins him $160,000, satisfying the IRS.


== Cast ==

Credits adapted from TV Guide.


== Production ==
The film was originally