The Boys of St. Vincent is a 1992 Canadian television miniseries directed by John N. Smith for the National Film Board of Canada. It is a two-part docudrama inspired by real events that took place at the Mount Cashel Orphanage in St. John's, Newfoundland, one of a number of child sexual abuse scandals in the Roman Catholic Church.
The first film, The Boys of St. Vincent, covers the sexual and physical abuse of a number of orphans by Brothers headed by Brother Peter Lavin (Henry Czerny). The second film, The Boys of St. Vincent: 15 Years Later, covers the trial of the Brothers and the long-term effects of the abuse 15 years later.
The miniseries was set to premiere on Canadian television in late 1992, but due to the concurrent trials of four Ontario priests who were being tried for similar cases, a court injunction banned the broadcast in Ontario and Quebec. The ban was later overturned after appeals at federal and provincial courts and the miniseries received a nationwide broadcast in late 1993.
The Boys of St. Vincent received widespread critical acclaim and was included in lists of the Top 10 films of 1994 by Rolling Stone, Entertainment Weekly, and USA Today. It won the grand prize at the Banff Television Festival, as well as a Peabody Award and a National Board of Review award.


== Plot ==


=== Part One ===
In 1975, St. Vincent Orphanage is run by the young Brother Peter Lavin. Kevin Reevey, a 10-year-old abused child, tries to avoid Lavin's attentions by running away, but he is returned to the orphanage by police. When Lavin tries to embrace and caress him, Kevin resists and protests, "You're not my mother!" This causes Lavin to violently react to the boy, and Kevin is severely beaten with the buckle end of the brother's belt. Steven Lunny is another abused boy whose older brother Brian tries to protect him.
Finn, the orphanage's janitor, notices Kevin's injuries and worriedly sends him to a hospital. Lavin fires Finn, but Finn hires a detective to investigate the orphanage, and word starts to spread in the local community about possible abuse at St. Vincent. However, an investigation is hampered by an institutional cover-up. Because the orphanage is about to receive a grant from the government that would go towards renovations, the town's police chief wants to avoid the stain of a political scandal. The investigation is ultimately buried by the head of the justice department and church officials, and no arrests are made. Lavin and several Brothers are merely transferred.


=== Part Two ===
Fifteen years later, Lavin has left the priesthood and lives in Montreal with his wife and two sons. A cop comes to his door to arrest him on charges of sexual assault, gross indecency and misconduct, to which Lavin pleads not guilty. The St. Vincent victims, now men in their mid-20s, are called upon to give evidence in the trial. Brian has since happily married and has two children, but has not seen Steven in years; the two brothers reconcile at the trial. Kevin is haunted by his abuse and has nightmares. Steven is emotionally destroyed by the defence advocate, who reveals that he abused seven-year-old boys at the orphanage when he was sixteen. Steven then takes his own life with an overdose of drugs. His death ultimately prompts Kevin to give evidence against Lavin. Lavin remains in denial, even to his wife. His fate is left unanswered as is the question, posed by his wife at the end of the second film, as to whether he ever molested his own two young sons.


== Cast ==


== Production ==
The Boys of St. Vincent was a co-production between the National Film Board of Canada (NFB), the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, and Montreal’s Les Productions Télé-Action Inc.
For the orphan characters, the production sought out young boys with no prior acting experience to act alongside experienced professionals like Henry Czerny. The miniseries was shot over a period of five months, beginning in November 1991. The filmmakers did extensive pr