BrainDead is an American political satire science fiction comedy-drama television series created by Robert and Michelle King. The series stars Mary Elizabeth Winstead as Laurel Healy, a documentary film-maker who takes a job working for her brother Luke (Danny Pino), a U.S. Senator, when the funding for her latest film falls through. Assigned as his new constituency caseworker, she discovers that Washington, D.C. has been invaded by extraterrestrial insects which are eating the brains and taking control of people, including members of Congress and their staffers. Much of the internal comedy of the series was that, in the altered reality of Washington, D.C. politics, only a few people noticed.
CBS announced a 13-episode straight-to-series order on July 22, 2015. The show premiered on June 13, 2016. After four episodes, the show moved from its Monday timeslot to Sundays to make room for the network's coverage of the Republican and Democratic National Conventions. The show had a planned four-season arc, which would have seen the bugs then invade Wall Street, Silicon Valley and Hollywood, but on October 17, 2016, CBS canceled the series after one season.


== Premise ==
The series centers on the Capitol in Washington, D.C., where alien bugs infect members of Congress.
Documentary filmmaker Laurel Healy agrees to take a job working for her brother, Democratic Senator Luke Healy, in order to secure funding for her next film. However, she comes across a conspiracy in which alien bugs have partially replaced the brains of several people, including members of Congress. Sometimes, the bugs cause their victims' heads to explode. The song "You Might Think" by The Cars is used frequently in the series as a leitmotif for characters who are infected by the aliens.


== Cast ==


=== Main ===
Mary Elizabeth Winstead as Laurel Healy, a documentary filmmaker who takes a job as a constituency caseworker working for her brother, Senator Luke Healy, and stumbles across the bug conspiracy
Danny Pino as U.S. Senator Luke Healy (D-Md.), Laurel's brother, who is the Senate Majority Whip
Tony Shalhoub as U.S. Senator Raymond "Red" Wheatus (R-Md.), a Republican Senator who is one of the first people to have their brains eaten and replaced by the aliens
Aaron Tveit as Gareth Ritter, a staffer for Senator Wheatus who befriends Laurel, despite their extremely different political beliefs
Nikki M. James as Dr. Rochelle Daudier, a medical doctor who befriends Laurel and Gustav and helps them uncover the bug conspiracy
Jan Maxwell as U.S. Senator Ella Pollack (D-Ca)
Johnny Ray Gill as Gustav Triplett a.k.a. Dr. Bob, a pseudo-scientist and conspiracist  who has discovered the existence of the aliens and how they communicate
Charlie Semine as FBI agent Anthony Onofrio


=== Recurring ===
Paige Patterson as Scarlett Pierce, Senator Healy's Chief of Staff and one of his mistresses 
Megan Hilty as Misty Alise, a conservative political television commentator 
Beth Malone as Claudia Monarch, a liberal political television commentator
Zach Grenier as Dean Healy, former U.S. Senator and father of Laurel and Luke
Brooke Adams as U.S. Senator Diane Vaynerchuk
Wayne Duvall as U.S. Senator Andre Amarant, Republican Leader in the Senate
Glenn Fleshler as FBI Agent Aaron Blades, Onofrio's partner
Patrick Breen as Cole Stockwell, a budget analyst hired by Luke
Lily Cowles as Germaine Healy, Senator Luke Healy's pregnant wife


=== Guest ===
Margo Martindale as Dr. Joanne Alaimo
Michael Moore as himself
Kurt Fuller as J.K. Cornish, FBI torturer
Michael Gaston as Lawrence Boch, a special investigator
Santino Fontana as Kevin, an infected who gets captured by Rochelle
Michael Potts as Dr. Daudier, a doctor conducting a joint operation with the Russian Institute on the retrieval of a meteor


== Production ==
Singer-songwriter Jonathan Coulton wrote and performed musical recap segments of previous episodes, shown during the cold opening of each episode. There were exceptions to t