Bread and Chocolate (Italian: Pane e cioccolata) is a 1974 Italian comedy-drama film directed by Franco Brusati. This film chronicles the misadventures of an Italian immigrant to Switzerland and is representative of the commedia all'italiana film genre. In 2008, the film was included on the Italian Ministry of Cultural Heritage’s 100 Italian films to be saved, a list of 100 films that "have changed the collective memory of the country between 1942 and 1978."


== Plot ==
Like many southern Europeans of the period (1960s to early 1970s), Nino Garofalo (Nino Manfredi) is a migrant "guest worker" from Italy, working as a waiter in Switzerland. He loses his work permit when he is caught urinating in public, so he begins to lead a clandestine life in Switzerland.
At first he is supported by Elena, a Greek woman and political refugee. Then he is befriended by an Italian industrialist, relocated to Switzerland because of financial problems. The industrialist takes him under his wing and invests his savings for him, but kills himself after his financial scheme collapses, without having told Nino where he deposited his savings.
Nino is constrained to find shelter with a group of clandestine Neapolitans living in a chicken coop, together with the same chickens they tend to in order to survive.
Charmed by the idyllic vision of a group of young blonde Swisses, having a bath in a river, he decides to dye his hair and pass himself off as a local. In a bar, when openly rooting for the Italy national football team during the broadcast of a match, he is found out as a migrant Italian worker, after celebrating a goal scored by Fabio Capello.
He is arrested and brought to a police station. He meets Elena again, who wants to give him a renewed permit but he refuses. He embarks on a train and finds himself in a cabin filled with returning Italian guest workers. Amid the songs of "sun" and "sea", he is seen having second thoughts.


== Cast ==

Nino Manfredi as Nino Garofalo
Johnny Dorelli as Italian Industrialist
Anna Karina as Elena
Paolo Turco as Gianni
Ugo D'Alessio as Old Man
Tano Cimarosa as Giacomo
Gianfranco Barra as The Turk
Giorgio Cerioni as Police Inspector
Francesco D'Adda as Rudiger
Geoffrey Copleston as Boegli
Federico Scrobogna as Grigory
Max Delys as Renzo
Umberto Raho as Maitre
Nelide Giammarco as The Blonde
Manfred Freyberger as The Sportman


== Reception ==
In the Chicago Sun-Times, film critic Roger Ebert wrote:Bread and Chocolate is a sneaky comedy that winds up being serious about its subject. It reminds us of some of Chaplin's later features, and maybe it's no coincidence that the lead character looks like Chaplin. He's a Southern Italian waiter named Nino (Nino Manfredi), who goes to Switzerland to tryout for a restaurant job and finds himself caught in a net of discrimination...
The only sympathy he gets comes from a neighbor (Anna Karina), a Greek immigrant who's concealing her child from the immigration authorities. Despondent, he goes into the country to find work on a chicken farm, and the film finds its best and most unforgettable image: a chicken-coop filled with immigrant laborers, who peer with admiration and envy through chicken wire at a crowd of Swiss kids frolicking in a pool.

It's here that we most completely feel the movie's underlying tension and seriousness. Other films have considered the dilemma of immigrant workers in Europe ... but not until this film by Franco Brusati has the subject been approached as a comedy.


== Awards ==
The film won several international awards including the Silver Bear at the 24th Berlin International Film Festival in 1974.
New York Film Critics Circle Award for Best Foreign Language Film 1978


== References ==


== External links ==
Bread and Chocolate at IMDb 
Bread and Chocolate at AllMovie