Bride of Chucky is a 1998 American black comedy slasher film written by Don Mancini and directed by Ronny Yu. The fourth installment in the Child's Play franchise, it stars Jennifer Tilly, Brad Dourif, John Ritter, Katherine Heigl, and Nick Stabile. Unlike the first three films, Bride of Chucky takes a markedly humorous turn towards self-referential parody. It also departs from the Andy Barclay storyline of the first three films, focusing mainly on series villain Chucky, a doll possessed by a serial killer, and his former lover and accomplice Tiffany, whose soul is also transferred into a doll.
Bride of Chucky was released on October 16, 1998. The film grossed over $50 million worldwide on a budget of $25 million and received mixed reviews from critics. A sequel, Seed of Chucky, was released in 2004.


== Plot ==
In Lockport, New York in 1998, Tiffany Valentine, Chucky's former lover and accomplice, bribes police officer Bailey into selling her Chucky's remains. After murdering Bailey, Tiffany repairs the doll and performs a voodoo ritual to revive him. Tiffany's goth admirer Damien arrives at her trailer, wanting to have sex with her; Tiffany is delighted when Chucky animates and suffocates him.
Chucky and Tiffany get into an argument when Tiffany mentions that she mistakenly believed they were going to get married before he originally died. When Chucky laughs at the prospect of marrying Tiffany, she becomes angry and locks him in a playpen, and later taunts him by giving him a wedding-themed bride doll.  Chucky escapes from the playpen and electrocutes Tiffany to death before using a voodoo spell to transfer her soul into the bride doll as a form of revenge. 
Chucky explains that if they want to escape their current doll bodies, they must retrieve a magical amulet called the Heart of Damballa that was buried with his human body. They decide the best bodies to inhabit are Tiffany's neighbor Jesse, whom she is attracted to, and his girlfriend Jade. Tiffany calls Jesse and asks him to take the two dolls to Hackensack, New Jersey, where Chucky's body is buried, in exchange for a thousand dollars. Eager to marry Jade, Jesse accepts the offer. 
Jade's strict uncle, police chief Warren Kincaid, plants a bag of marijuana in Jesse's van to frame him. Chucky and Tiffany rig a trap which embeds several nails into Warren's face, then hide his body within the van. Jesse and Jade begin their trip. The two are later pulled over by Officer Norton, who finds the marijuana in Jesse's van. After Norton returns to his patrol car to report it, Chucky ignites the car's gas tank, blowing it up and killing Norton. Jesse and Jade flee the scene.
They begin to suspect each other of killing Norton. Despite their issues, Jesse and Jade get married. While at a hotel, another couple steals Jesse's wallet as Tiffany secretly watches in disgust. Tiffany later murders them by skewering them with broken shards of mirror. Seeing this, Chucky realizes he's in love with Tiffany.  He proposes to Tiffany and they have sex. 
The following morning, Jesse and Jade flee with their friend David, who came to the hotel after they both called him separately the previous night. David informs Jesse and Jade that they are the prime suspects for the deaths, but says he believes them to both be innocent. After finding Warren's body, David makes them stop the van at gunpoint, convinced they are both murderers.  However, when Chucky and Tiffany reveal they're alive, a startled David backs up and is hit by a truck, killing him.
Chucky and Tiffany steal an RV to evade the police. Jesse and Jade instigate an argument between Chucky and Tiffany. In the commotion, Jade kicks Tiffany into the RV's oven while Jesse pushes Chucky out the window. Jesse loses control of the RV, crashing it. Chucky forces Jade to take him to his grave while Jesse follows with Tiffany. Jade retrieves the amulet from the casket. Jesse then appears with Tiffany, and they trade hostages, but Chucky manages to