Broadway Melody of 1940 is a 1940 MGM film musical starring Fred Astaire, Eleanor Powell and George Murphy (Astaire's first male dancing partner on film). It was directed by Norman Taurog and features music by Cole Porter, including "Begin the Beguine".
The film was the fourth and final entry in MGM's "Broadway Melody" series of films, and is notable for being the only on-screen pairing of Astaire and Powell, who were considered the finest film musical dancers of their time.


== Plot ==
Johnny Brett and King Shaw are a dance team so down on their luck that they work in a dance hall for no money. Meanwhile, Clare Bennett is a big Broadway star. Owing to a case of mistaken identity, Shaw is offered the chance to be Clare's dancing partner in a new Broadway show, when Johnny's dancing was really what producer Bob Casey saw and wanted. The partnership breaks up, but Johnny still helps out King, who lets his newfound success go to his head. Clare eventually realizes that Johnny, not King, is the better dancer, and she falls in love after having lunch with him. When Shaw gets drunk on opening night, Johnny steps in and saves the show with a brilliant performance, though he lets King think he did it himself. Clare later tells King the truth. Just before the next show, Clare discovers King drunk again, and Johnny becomes the permanent replacement. After the show, they find out that King was pretending to be drunk so that Johnny would get the job.


== Cast ==
Fred Astaire as Johnny Brett
Eleanor Powell as Clare Bennett
George Murphy as King Shaw
Frank Morgan as Bob Casey
Ian Hunter as Bert C. Matthews
Florence Rice as Amy Blake, Casey's Secretary
Lynne Carver as Emmy Lou Lee
Ann Morriss as Pearl Delonge
Trixie Firschke as Juggler
Herman Bing as Silhouettist (uncredited)
Cast notes:

Mel Blanc appears, uncredited, as a panhandler.


== Musical numbers ==
"Please Don't Monkey with Broadway" - words and music by Cole Porter, sung and danced by Fred Astaire and George Murphy
"All Ashore" - words and music by Roger Edens, sung by Eleanor Powell, one of the few times she was ever shown singing with her own voice rather than being overdubbed.
"Between You and Me" - words and music by Cole Porter, sung by George Murphy, danced by Murphy and Eleanor Powell
"I've Got My Eyes on You" - words and music by Cole Porter, sung and danced by Fred Astaire
"Jukebox Dance" - words and music by Walter Ruick, danced by Eleanor Powell and Fred Astaire.  Powell later said this number was her favorite out of all her filmed dances.
"I Concentrate on You" - words and music by Cole Porter, sung by Douglas McPhail, danced by Eleanor Powell and Fred Astaire
"Begin the Beguine" - words and music by Cole Porter, sung in two styles as part of the final musical piece in the film. The song is first sung in dramatic style by mezzo-soprano Lois Hodnott (who was also used to dub the vocals for screwball soprano Carmen D'Antonio in the comedy audition sequence Il Bacio in the middle of the movie) on a "tropical" set, with Powell, joined by Astaire dancing in side-by-side, their choreography drawing heavily on flamenco dance. Later, after it is sung in what was then contemporary jazz style by The Music Maids, Astaire and Powell tap dance to a big band accompaniment; the sequence includes a passage in which they tap dance with no musical accompaniment. The big-band/jazz segment was featured in the 1974 documentary That's Entertainment!, which noted in the narration that this dance was the last of MGM's big black-and-white production numbers.
"I've Got My Eyes on You" (instrumental and choral reprise) - danced by Fred Astaire, Eleanor Powell and George Murphy


== Production ==
Broadway Melody of 1940 was based on a story by Jack McGowan and Dore Schary.  Schary would go on to be head of production (1948) and then president (1951) of MGM until 1956.  The film was originally planned to be shot in Technicolor, but because of the unsettled state of Europe due to World War II, M