"Brother from Another Series" is the sixteenth episode of the eighth season of the American animated television series The Simpsons. It originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on February 23, 1997. Sideshow Bob is released from prison after his arrest in "Sideshow Bob's Last Gleaming" into the care of his brother Cecil and claims to be a changed man. However, Bart does not believe him and tries to find out what Bob is up to. It was the first episode directed by Pete Michels and was written by Ken Keeler. The episode guest stars Kelsey Grammer in his sixth appearance as Sideshow Bob and David Hyde Pierce in his first appearance as Cecil. The title is not only a pun on the movie The Brother from Another Planet (used for a previous episode as well), but for the fact that guest stars Kelsey Grammer and David Hyde Pierce also played bickering brothers Frasier Crane and Niles Crane, respectively, on the NBC sitcom Frasier.


== Plot ==
While performing live from Springfield Prison, Krusty the Clown encounters Sideshow Bob. Bob talks about the crimes he has committed in the past, including framing Krusty for armed robbery, attempting to kill Selma Bouvier, and attempting to kill Bart Simpson as revenge for Bart exposing Bob's framing of Krusty. Bob is later declared a changed man by Reverend Lovejoy and leaves prison on a work-release program, despite Bart's insistence that Bob is still a homicidal maniac.  Bob is taken into the care of his brother, Cecil; they have not seen each other in ten years. Cecil is Springfield's chief hydrological and hydrodynamical engineer, and he employs Bob to supervise the construction of a hydroelectric dam in a river near the town. Bart, believing Bob is still plotting his murder, follows Bob's every move. Bob — annoyed by Bart's intrusions and the dam's incompetent laborers, including Cletus — expresses his desire to see the dam burst and obliterate Springfield.
While searching Bob's trailer at the dam construction site, Bart and Lisa discover a briefcase full of cash. When confronted with the money, Bob denies knowing about it, stating the finances were used to put concrete in the dam's walls. However, the walls turn out to be hollow and poorly constructed. Cecil arrives — pointing a gun at Bart, Lisa, and Bob — and reveals his own intention to embezzle the money from the project, and his plans to frame Bob as the scapegoat when the dam collapses from shoddy construction. Cecil's motivation for the crime is being upstaged at his audition as Krusty's sidekick ten years prior by Bob, who was chosen as the clown's sidekick instead, despite Bob having no interest in the job. Cecil locks Bob, Bart and Lisa in the dam and prepares to blow it up, taking the money with him.
Deciding to work together, Bart, Lisa, and Bob escape and try to save the dam. While Lisa and Bob defuse Cecil's dynamite, Bart lunges at Cecil before he can press the plunger. Cecil attempts to swat him off with the briefcase, which falls open and scatters money over the river below, washing it away. Cecil throws Bart off a cliff, but Bob grabs the dynamite's cord and swoops down to save him. As the two dangle over the side of the dam, Bob cuts the cord on the dynamite to prevent Cecil from destroying the town. Bart and Bob plummet down the dam's wall, but a protruding pipe stops their fall.
The police arrive and arrest Cecil. Bob gloats over his victory, having gained the respect of Bart and Lisa, but Chief Wiggum believes Bob was complicit in the crime and arrests him. As they are taken away, Cecil tricks Bob into swearing revenge and incriminating himself. The dam then crumbles and releases a torrent of water on Springfield, but does only minimal damage. Cecil and Bob are put in a jail cell together, which leaves both men miserable.


== Production ==

The episode was written by Ken Keeler, who had been watching a lot of Frasier episodes at the time and had been assigned to write a Sideshow Bob episode and he though