Caddyshack II is a 1988 American sports comedy film and a sequel to the 1980 film Caddyshack. Directed by Allan Arkush and written by Harold Ramis (who co-wrote and directed the original Caddyshack) and PJ Torokvei, it stars Jackie Mason, Robert Stack, Dyan Cannon, Dina Merrill, Jonathan Silverman, Brian McNamara, Marsha Warfield, Paul Bartel, and Randy Quaid with special appearances by Chevy Chase and Dan Aykroyd. It tells the story of a wealthy and widowed real estate developer who goes up against Bushwood County Club's snobbish president in a golfing tournament.
While the writing of the film is officially credited to Ramis and Torokvei, the first-draft script by Ramis and Torokvei was rewritten by other uncredited writers.
The sequel was panned by critics and is considered one of the worst sequels of all time. However, Kenny Loggins' "Nobody's Fool" which was used as the film's theme song was a chart success where it hit #8 on the Billboard Hot 100.


== Plot ==
Kate Hartounian is the teenage daughter of Jack, a wealthy and widowed real estate developer of Armenian and Jewish descent. Eager to improve her social status, Kate befriends the snobbish WASP Miffy Young, who encourages Kate and the boorish but good-hearted Jack to join their country club Bushwood (the same club from the first film) where the gopher is still at large.
When the elitist, old money members of Bushwood meet self-made millionaire Jack, who builds low-income housing in upscale neighborhoods and displays many working-class traits, his application to join is rejected. The only member of the club who takes a liking to the crude, but friendly Jack is wealthy widow Elizabeth Pearce. Jack runs afoul of Bushwood's snobbish president Chandler Young who declares the Hartounians "are not Bushwood material." Chandler's equally snooty wife Cynthia tries to persuade Jack to build his housing complex away from her neighborhood after her son Todd failed to persuade Jack's lawyer Peter Blunt, leading Jack to chase her and the Pierponts with a bulldozer. In addition, Jack wins Chandler, Cynthia, Mr. Jamison, the Pierponts, and each of its "secret slaves" in an auction that involves them working on his construction site. Jack's behavior upsets Kate, harming their relationship as she befriends a caddy named Harry.
In retaliation for being blackballed by the club and Chandler having the construction site being shut down by establishing a Historical Preservation Society, Jack turns to his friend, millionaire Ty Webb who owns the majority share of Bushwood but otherwise stays out of the club's day-to-day operations. Jack buys Ty's stock in the club - making himself majority owner - and turns Bushwood into a garish amusement park called Jackie's Wacky Golf, appalling Chandler and the other club members when they lose at each hole against Peter. Chandler hires a mercenary named Captain Tom Everett to kill Jack after being hooked up by their mutual friend. Kate moves in with Miffy since Jack does not care for her.
Chandler and Todd threaten Blunt with endless legal motions and filings intended to financially bankrupt Jack. Ty Webb suggests that the dispute between Jack and Chandler be resolved by the two men facing each other in a golf match. If Chandler wins, Jack gives up his construction site and the country club. If Jack wins, he keeps Bushwood and the housing project. Chandler hedges his bet by expecting Everett to kill Jack. Everett botches the first attempt by accidentally blowing up Chandler's Rolls-Royce which he mistook for Jack's car.
On the day of the golf match, Ty enlists Harry to be Jack's caddie following Jack's training. Everett's mission is derailed by the antics of the gopher. Despite Jack's poor performance early in the match, he manages to tie the score before the final hole. While playing the hole, Jack is faced with a 50-foot putt while Chandler faces a simple two-foot putt. Employing advice given to him by Webb before the match, Jack manages to sink the 