Can't Hardly Wait is a 1998 American teen romantic comedy film written and directed by Deborah Kaplan and Harry Elfont. It stars an ensemble cast including Ethan Embry, Charlie Korsmo, Lauren Ambrose, Peter Facinelli, Seth Green, and Jennifer Love Hewitt, and is notable for a number of "before-they-were-famous" appearances by teen stars. The story takes place at a high school graduation party.
The film received mixed reviews from critics. It grossed a total of $25 million at the North American domestic box office, against a production budget of $10 million. The soundtrack peaked at number 25 on the Billboard 200 chart.


== Concept ==
The story takes place at a high school graduation party in the late 1990s and in a style much like that of the high school movies of the 1980s. The idea of setting most of the movie at a party was based primarily on concerns to keep production costs low and was also inspired by the movies of John Hughes and the party scene in Say Anything....
The film takes its name from The Replacements' song of the same title, from their 1987 album Pleased to Meet Me, which plays over the film's closing credits.


== Plot ==
In 1998, the senior class suburban high school Huntington Hillside High are attending a graduation party at the house of a rich class member. Among them are Preston Meyers, an outsider who plans to proclaim his love to his four-year secret crush Amanda Beckett. 
Amanda, the most popular girl in school and the senior class prom queen, has been dumped by popular jock Mike Dexter. Mike is targeted by nerd classmate William Lichter, who is plotting revenge against him for years of bullying. Kenny Fisher is a wannabe thug who plans on losing his virginity by the end of the night.
Amanda is consoled by her popular girlfriends, but realizes she has nothing in common with them. She tries to figure out if she has an identity beyond only being known as "Mike Dexter's girlfriend". 
Amanda discovers a letter addressed to her by Preston and, moved by its contents, makes it her mission to find him, she does not know what he looks like and no one she asks gives any helpful descriptions. Meanwhile, Preston's antisocial best friend Denise Fleming and Kenny accidentally lock themselves inside a bathroom away from the party, where they talk about their old friendship and how they had drifted apart; their conversation leads to the restoration of their friendship and escalates into them having sex.
Later, an intoxicated Mike learns from Trip McNeely—a graduate and former stud from his high school—that in college, guys like them are "a dime a dozen". Trip emphasizes how he dumped his girlfriend in the same fashion that Mike did to "score" with other women and was unsuccessful. Terrified of this prospect, Mike tries to get Amanda back, but she is happier without him and humiliates him in front of everyone there. 
After seeing the school jock turned down, multiple guys begin to hit on Amanda, much to her disgust. Preston finds her and professes his love, but as she still has not learned what he looks like, she assumes he is another pervert and rejects him in front of the entire party. Amanda later realizes her mistake when she sees Preston's yearbook picture and tries to find him, but he has already driven home in disappointment.
Meanwhile, William devises his plan to get revenge on Mike and goes into the party to drive him out. While there, William begins drinking alcohol to fit in, drinking enough to make him forget why he was there. An impromptu sing-along to Guns N' Roses' "Paradise City" causes him to become popular, with multiple women trying to have sex with him. 
William later begins talking with Mike, who apologizes for bullying him. William forgives him; the two bond and seemingly become friends. When Mike and William are jailed as a result of a police bust, Mike takes the blame.
The next morning, when William sees Mike and his friends at a diner, he tries to thank him for taking the fall. But Mike acts 