Carnosaur 3: Primal Species is a 1996 direct-to-video science fiction horror film. It is the sequel to the 1995 film Carnosaur 2, and is the final installment of the Carnosaur trilogy. It stars Scott Valentine, Janet Gunn, Rick Dean, Rodger Halston and Anthony Peck. The film follows a military team as they try to capture several genetically reconstructed dinosaurs. It received negative reviews.


== Plot ==
In the opening sequence, an army convoy is attacked by terrorists who think they are stealing uranium. But they soon discover that they stole a truckload of living frozen biological material instead of uranium. Once in a dockside warehouse, two frozen Velociraptors and a Tyrannosaurus rex escape and kill terrorists before the police arrive, expecting to find drug dealers. After finding the sole survivor, the police are killed inside the warehouse by the dinosaurs. A special counter-terrorism force led by Colonel Rance Higgins is called in by General Mercer where they find body parts and a refrigerated truck rather than uranium. They maneuver through the warehouse boxes until two of them are killed.
The survivors learn from Dr. Hodges that these dinosaurs have been genetically rebuilt and are now the last three "carnosaurs" still in existence. The dinosaurs were on their way to a government research facility, and it is clearly stated that they must be captured alive, due to the potential to cure major diseases. A huge shipment of meat is on the dock, so the three remaining soldiers hunt in this area, encountering a unit of Marine who have come as reinforcements. Private Polchek is given tranquilizer to shoot the dinosaurs while the group sets up a decoy and net trap with meat. One of the Velociraptor attacks and almost succeeds in dragging Polchek away, but is shot down.
The raptor is taken to the base for examination. Hodges soon theorizes the regeneration of Velociraptor and Asexual Reproduction of T. rex. Once recovered, the injured Velociraptor wakes up and begins to attack. The T. rex also appears and kills a soldier before escaping with the Velociraptor to an agricultural transport ship. With Marines member Rossi as captain, the team decides to move the ship out to sea and use its coolant to freeze the dinosaurs.
When it comes time to explore the lower decks of the ship, the raptors kill a few more soldiers. The survivors make it to an elevator, but a Velociraptor gnaws through the cable and they crash on the lower level. There, the team discovers a nest of eggs and begins to shoot it, angering T. rex, who kills Polchek. The survivors eventually decide to kill the dinosaurs by blowing up the ship with dynamite.
The T. rex bursts through the ceiling and drags Rossi through before killing him. The two Velociraptors are shot after one of them kills Marine member Proudfoot. Hodges feels the T. rex is near. She and Rance hide behind lockers that the T. rex headbutts. Rance throws an explosive into the dinosaur's mouth, killing it. The two race against time to jump into the ocean before the ship explodes. Back in a police cruiser at the port, the lone surviving terrorist is still bound and gagged in the back seat when a Velociraptor soon appears outside the vehicle and attacks him, hinting that the prehistoric terror is not finished yet.


== Cast ==
Scott Valentine as Colonel Rance Higgins
Janet Gunn as Dr. Hodges
Rick Dean as Polchek
Rodger Halston as Sanders
Anthony Peck as General Pete Mercer
Terri J. Vaughn as B.T. Coolidge
Billy Burnette as Lieutenant Furguson
Morgan Englund as Rossi
Stephen Lee as Sergeant
David Roberson as Johnson
Justina Vail as Proudfoot
Cyril O'Reilly as Dolan
Abraham Gordon as Officer Billings
Michael James McDonald as Officer Wilson
Jonathan Winfrey as Bob


== Production and release ==
Carnosaur 3: Primal Species was made on a smaller budget than its predecessors. A 60-pound rubber creature suit was utilized to portray some of the dinosaurs. Cast member Justina Vail said about the production: "