Cat's Eye (Japanese: キャッツ♥アイ, Hepburn: Kyattsu Ai, stylized as CAT'S♥EYE) is a Japanese manga series written and illustrated by Tsukasa Hojo. It was serialized in Shueisha's shōnen manga magazine Weekly Shōnen Jump from 1981 to 1985, with its chapters collected into 18 tankōbon. The story follows the adventures of the three Kisugi sisters — Hitomi, Rui and Ai, who are formidable art thieves trying to collect all the works belonging to their missing father.
The manga was made into a televised anime series of the same name originally broadcast in 1983 to 1984 on Nippon TV, with a second season ending in 1985. It has also received two live-action adaptations; a TV movie in 1988 and a theatrical film in 1997. A crossover ONA with Lupin III that TMS Entertainment produced, premiered on Amazon Prime Video in 2023.
Cat's Eye is one of Weekly Shōnen Jump's best-selling manga series of all time, with over 20 million copies sold, making it one of the best-selling manga series.


== Plot ==
Hitomi Kisugi, along with her older sister Rui and her younger sister Ai, run a café called "Cat's Eye" in Tokyo. The sisters lead a double life as a trio of highly skilled art thieves, stealing works of art which primarily belonged to their long-missing father, Michael Heinz, who was a famous art collector during the Nazi regime. Hitomi's fiancé is Toshio Utsumi, a clumsy young police officer who is investigating the Cat's Eye case. Despite being a frequent visitor to the café he is unaware of the double life of the girls. Hitomi regularly informs the police in advance about her next job using a signature "Cat's Eye" calling card, and then uses Toshio's research about the security surrounding the target to help plan the job.
At the end of the series, Heinz leaves a note for his daughters stating that he cannot reveal himself yet because the mafia may kill him, but he may appear in five years' time. However, the "Heinz" turns out to be the sisters' treacherous uncle Cranaff, who betrayed Michael years earlier. After losing a final bet to Cat's Eye, Cranaff decides to atone for his sin by setting fire to the museum, killing himself. Hitomi eventually admits to Toshio that she is part of Cat's Eye and flees before he can arrest her. Toshio vows to track her down, attempting to "arrest" Hitomi at the airport with a wedding ring. He resigns from the police force and travels to America to find Hitomi, but finds that she has lost her memory due to viral meningitis. Toshio spends time with her until her memories come back, and the two rekindle their relationship.


== Characters ==
Hitomi Kisugi (来生 瞳, Kisugi Hitomi)
Voiced by: Keiko Toda (Japanese); Alexis Tipton (City Hunter: Shinjuku Private Eyes), Alicyn Packard (Lupin the 3rd vs. Cat's Eye) (English)
Hitomi is the main protagonist of the series. Second daughter of Michael Heinz, Hitomi is usually the one who actually commits the heists, and is hence uniquely referred to as the Cat's Eye. Like Rui, she is an accomplished athlete and well versed in a number of disciplines and skills ranging from horseback riding to safe cracking. She is a skilled gymnast and is able to perform complex acrobatic moves with ease and grace. She is able to escape most restraints and handcuffs with minimal effort, and it is inferred that she is ambidextrous as well as double jointed. She is a skilled martial artist with proficiency in a number of disciplines, most notably judo, boxing and karate, and also has degrees in kendo and aikido. Hitomi is very charming, clever, sweet, sisterly, loyal, cunning, flirtatious, caring and kind-hearted.
Like Rui, Hitomi is also able to disguise her appearance effortlessly and can speak several other languages.
Rui Kisugi (来生 泪, Kisugi Rui)
Voiced by: Toshiko Fujita (TV series), Keiko Toda (City Hunter: Shinjuku Private Eyes), Rika Fukami (Lupin the 3rd vs. Cat's Eye, City Hunter the Movie: Angel Dust) (Japanese); Dawn M. Bennett (City Hunter: Shinjuku Private Eyes), Cristina Vee (Lupin the 