A cavalcade is a procession or parade on horseback, or a mass distance ride by a company of riders.  
Sometimes the focus of a cavalcade is participation rather than display and the participants do not wear costumes or ride in formation. Sometimes, a modern cavalcade re-enacts an important historical event and follows a long-distance trail.  A cavalcade may also be a pilgrimage.

Many cavalcades involve ceremonial entries into and departures from towns and villages.  Long-distance cavalcades may acquire more riders who join from populated places along its route.
A modern variant is a ceremonial entry to an event, called the "grand entry.” Such processions are traditional in many rodeos and powwows in the American West. 
The term cavalcade comes from the classical Latin word caballus, used to describe a strong work horse.  This developed into the word caballicare, "to ride horseback," which in Italian became cavalcare. In Spanish the term for cavalcade is cabalgata.


== North America ==

In New Mexico, Philmont Scout Ranch includes a week-long cavalcade among its programs. The annual pilgrimage to El Santuario de Chimayó includes a cavalcade of classic cars on Good Friday. Traditionally, the pilgrimage had been made on foot. Today, in addition to traveling by car and foot, a few pilgrims ride horses.  Columbus, New Mexico is the end point of the annual Cabalgata Binacional Villista (see #Chihuahua).
In the western United States, certain ceremonial long-distance rides on horseback, sometimes driving cattle, resemble cavalcades. Once example occurs in conjunction with the Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo. Another, among the  oldest, was established in 1952, a 110-mile cattle drive held annually on a route close to the Chisholm Trail from Cuero to San Antonio in conjunction with the San Antonio Livestock Show and Rodeo. 
The rodeo grand entry is a short form of mass riding for ceremonial purposes, where officials, rodeo queens, and many of the competitors enter the riding arena to be introduced at the beginning of each evening’s event.  Such performances usually are combined with presentation of flags, music, and playing of the national anthem.
At a powwow grand entry, the dancers who will perform enter the competition grounds in full regalia in a processional format that respects the traditions of indigenous people. An eagle feather staff with deep spiritual meaning begins the procession, followed by the American flag and other flags, often carried by military veterans.  Dancers enter in sequence based upon the relative status of the event, and elders enter before younger people. Once everyone has entered, there is an invocation, and a Native drum group usually performs a Flag Song and a Veterans’ Song.


== Mexico ==


=== Sonora ===
In Sonora, cavalcades are regular annual events in March and October.
On 26 through 28 October 2007 the Governor of Sonora, Eduardo Bours, and the regional Cattlemen's Association led a cavalcade of approximately 7,000 cowboys who were primarily from the local area, the state of Sonora, some other Mexican states and several western U.S. states.  The cavalcade was called Remontando El Río Sahuaripa 2007, and the route covered 61 kilometers. Beginning in Sahuaripa, the group traveled south following the river upstream, through the municipality of Arivechi, passing the banks of the Cajon de Onapa Reservoir Lake, and ending in the village of Guisamopa. The cowboys and horses were fed and supplied by an elaborate "Chuck Wagon" system.  That cavalcade is the focal end stage of the 500 km (310 mi) Cabalgando por Sonora from the Río Sonora to the Sierra Alta.


=== Chihuahua ===
In Chihuahua, two separate cavalcades commemorate the history of the Mexican Revolution and Francisco (Pancho) Villa.


==== Cabalgata Binacional Villista ====
Each year in February and March, the Cabalgata Binacional Villista commemorates the 9 March 1916 invasion of the United States by Pancho Villa's men.  The first cavalcade to