Child's Play (also known colloquially as Chucky) is an American slasher media franchise created by Don Mancini. The films mainly focus on Chucky (voiced by Brad Dourif in the original films and television series, and Mark Hamill in the reboot), a notorious serial killer who frequently escapes death by performing a voodoo ritual to transfer his soul into a "Good Guy" doll. The original film, Child's Play, was released on November 9, 1988. The film has spawned six sequels, a television series, a remake, comic books, a video game, and tie-in merchandise. The first, second, and fourth films were box office successes with all of the films earning over $182 million worldwide. Including revenues from sales of videos, DVDs, VOD and merchandise, the franchise has generated over $250 million. It also won a Saturn Award for Best Horror Franchise.
The television series titled Chucky began airing on October 12, 2021, on Syfy and USA Network.
Several short films have been made featuring the Chucky character: on the DVD release of Seed of Chucky, a short film entitled Chucky's Vacation Slides, set after the shooting of the film, was included, and a series of short films inserting Chucky into the events of other horror films entitled Chucky Invades was released in the run-up to the release of Curse of Chucky. On television, Chucky has appeared in commercials and also on Saturday Night Live, with a separate voice actor voicing the character. Chucky appeared in a pre-taped segment during an October 1998 episode of World Championship Wrestling's Monday Nitro program as a heel, taunting wrestler Rick Steiner who was a face at the time and promoting Bride of Chucky. He later appeared on WWE's NXT program for the special "Halloween Havoc" episodes in October 2021 and 2022, in which Chucky served as a host to announce several of the matches. These appearances were to promote the Chucky TV series.


== Films ==


=== Child's Play (1988) ===

Directed by Tom Holland from a story by Holland, John Lafia, and Don Mancini, Child's Play was released on November 9, 1988. It was the first film in the series and the only film (not counting the 2019 reboot) to be distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer/United Artists before the franchise was sold to Universal Pictures. The film starred Catherine Hicks, Chris Sarandon, Brad Dourif, and Alex Vincent in his first film performance.
Gunned down by Detective Mike Norris, dying murderer Charles Lee Ray uses voodoo magic to put his soul inside a doll named Chucky—which Karen Barclay buys for her young son, Andy. When Chucky kills Andy's babysitter, the boy realizes the doll is alive and tries to warn people, but he's institutionalized. Now Karen must convince the detective of the murderous doll's intentions, before Andy becomes Chucky's next victim.


=== Child's Play 2 (1990) ===

Directed by John Lafia, from a story by Don Mancini, and released on November 9, 1990, Child's Play 2 is the second film in the series and the first film produced by Universal Pictures. The film sees Alex Vincent and Brad Dourif reprise their respective roles as Andy Barclay and the voice of Chucky, while Christine Elise plays Andy's foster sister, Kyle.
Two years after serial killer Charles Lee Ray inserted his soul into a Chucky doll, a toy company attempts to re-create the doll, bringing Ray back in the process. The possessed doll, intent on claiming a human body, kills his way toward former owner Andy, who now lives in a foster home. Andy's foster sister, Kyle, tries to protect him, but his foster parents believe Andy is just a troubled kid—and Chucky's murderous path continues.


=== Child's Play 3 (1991) ===

Directed by Jack Bender from a story by Don Mancini and released on August 30, 1991, Child's Play 3 is the third and last film in the series to be titled Child's Play, as all future installments would later use the title Chucky (prior to the 2019 reboot). The film saw Justin Whalin (replacing Alex Vincent) as Andy Barclay, while Perre