Children of the Corn II: The Final Sacrifice is a 1992 American supernatural slasher film and the sequel to the 1984 film Children of the Corn. Directed by David Price (son of studio chief Frank Price), it stars Terence Knox, Ryan Bollman, Ned Romero, and Paul Scherrer. The film was released on October 21, 1992, in Germany and in theatres by Dimension Films on January 29, 1993. The video release was handled by Paramount Pictures. This was the last film in the series to be released theatrically until 2023, as other sequels went on direct to video.


== Plot ==
The plot involves the dark goings-on in Hemingford, Nebraska, a town near Gatlin, the original film's setting. Two days after the events of the first film, the people of Hemingford decide to adopt the surviving children from Gatlin and help them start new lives. The well-meaning locals are unaware that the children return to the cornfield where one of the cult members, Micah, is possessed by He Who Walks Behind the Rows, the demonic entity the cult worships.
Caught in the middle are city reporter John Garrett and his son Danny, who are having a bitter falling-out over John's failed relationship with Danny's mother. John is in town working on a story about the children to save his downward-spiraling career. He runs into two of his former coworkers, Bobby Knite and fellow reporter Wayde McKenzie, who are on their way out of town. Later they are killed in a nearby cornfield after taking a shortcut in their van; a mysterious, powerful storm that lasts only minutes causes the surprisingly-sharp cornstalks to wreak havoc. Back in town, John meets bed-and-breakfast owner Angela Casual and they soon become lovers. Looking to distance himself from his father, Danny befriends orphaned local girl Lacey, who tells him some disturbing details about Gatlin.
Micah and the other children murder local woman Ruby Burke by sabotaging the hydraulic jacks supporting her house while she is underneath it, causing it to descend and crush her. Micah then kills another townsperson, David Simpson, during church services with a knife and a wooden voodoo doll, which causes him to bleed to death from his head and face. John starts to question the town doctor about what is going on, but the doctor acts suspiciously and asks John to leave. Afterwards, the doctor calls the sheriff and reports that John is investigating. The doctor is later stabbed to death in his office by the children. Micah and the children later kill Mrs. Burke's sister, Mrs. West, in the road and make it look like she was struck by a car.
John partners with Frank Red Bear, a Native American professor at the state university, trying to make sense of the recent chaos and death. Frank leads John to ancient Native American rock paintings, telling him that Native Americans believed the area around Gatlin and Hemingford to hold special power which can magnify good or bad, and that children are especially vulnerable: Frank recites a story which tells of children killing their elders, but also how in the end with a funeral pyre a good spirit will emerge, further stipulating that the rock paintings show this has not yet come to pass.
As they investigate the local corn storage, they discover that town residents have been selling spoiled corn from the previous year's harvest along with the new crop to maximize profits. Growing on the spoiled corn is a dark-green acidic toxin which they believe is filling the town's air and contributing to a spate of delusions in the children, rendering them emotionless and violent. The Sheriff discovers them spying on the site, ties them up, and leaves them to be killed by a corn harvester, but they escape. Along the way, John questions Frank further about what's going on, with Frank telling how Native Americans believed in a spirit who would seek revenge for perceived wrongs done to the land, with He Who Walks Behind the Rows being this spirit.
The Sheriff and the rest of the Hemingford adults attend an emerge