Chinatown is a 1974 American neo-noir mystery film directed by Roman Polanski from a screenplay by Robert Towne. The film stars Jack Nicholson and Faye Dunaway. It was inspired by the California water wars, a series of disputes over southern California water at the beginning of the 20th century, by which Los Angeles interests secured water rights in the Owens Valley. The Robert Evans production, released by Paramount Pictures, was Polanski's last film in the United States and features many elements of film noir, particularly a multi-layered story that is part mystery and part psychological drama.
Chinatown was released in the United States on June 20, 1974, to acclaim from critics. At the 47th Academy Awards, it was nominated for 11 Oscars, with Towne winning Best Original Screenplay. The Golden Globe Awards honored it for Best Drama, Best Director, Best Actor, and Best Screenplay. The American Film Institute placed it second among its top ten mystery films in 2008. In 1991, the film was selected by the Library of Congress for preservation in the United States National Film Registry as being "culturally, historically or aesthetically significant". It is also often cited as one of the greatest films of all time.
A sequel, The Two Jakes, was released in 1990, again starring Nicholson, who also directed, with Robert Towne returning to write the screenplay. The film failed to match the acclaim of its predecessor.


== Plot ==
In 1937, a woman identifying herself as "Evelyn Mulwray" hires private investigator J. J. "Jake" Gittes to trail her husband Hollis, whom she suspects of infidelity. Hollis is chief engineer at the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power and refuses to build a new dam on the grounds of safety.
Gittes photographs Hollis in the company of a young woman, and the pictures make their way into the Los Angeles Times paper. He is confronted by the real Evelyn Mulwray, who threatens to sue him. Her imposter used him to discredit Hollis. The next day, Gittes investigates a reservoir and finds his former colleague, LAPD Lieutenant Lou Escobar; Hollis's body has been found there, where he is presumed to have drowned.
Now working for Evelyn, Gittes investigates Hollis's death as a homicide. Meanwhile, although there is a drought, huge quantities of water are released from the reservoir every night. Gittes is warned off by Water Department Security Chief Claude Mulvihill and is attacked by his henchman. The next morning, Gittes receives a call from Ida Sessions, the fake Evelyn Mulwray. She refuses to say who hired her but tells Gittes to check that day's obituaries.
Gittes learns that Hollis was once the business partner of Evelyn's wealthy father, Noah Cross. Cross offers to double Gittes' fee if he searches for Hollis's missing mistress. Gittes discovers that much of the Northwest Valley has recently changed ownership. He visits an orange grove in the valley but is attacked by landowners who believe him to be an agent of the Water Department, which is sabotaging the water supply to force them out.
The Water Department is drying up the land so it can be bought cheaply, and Hollis was murdered when he uncovered the plan. Some of the property in the valley was seemingly purchased by a recently deceased retirement home resident. Gittes and Evelyn bluff their way into the home and confirm that other real estate deals were transacted in the names of unknowing residents, with one of the residents being listed in the previous day's obituary. Their visit is interrupted by the suspicious director, who calls Mulvihill.
After escaping Mulvihill and his thugs, Evelyn and Gittes hide out at her house, where they sleep together. Gittes reveals that, during his days as a police officer in Chinatown, he once tried to protect a woman he loved from being hurt but inadvertently ended up making sure she was hurt. During the night, Evelyn receives a phone call that makes her leave. Gittes follows her to a house and sees her comforting Mulw