
== Choice ==
A choice is the range of different things from which a being can choose.  The arrival at a choice may incorporate motivators and models. 
Freedom of choice is generally cherished, whereas a severely limited or artificially restricted choice can lead to discomfort with choosing, and possibly an unsatisfactory outcome. In contrast, a choice with excessively numerous options may lead to confusion, reduced satisfaction, regret of the alternatives not taken, and indifference in an unstructured existence;: 63 
and the illusion that choosing an object or a course, necessarily leads to the control of that object or course, can cause psychological problems.


== Types ==
One can distinguish four or five main types of decisions, although they can be expressed in different ways. Brian Tracy breaks them down into:

command decisions, which can only be made by you, as the "Commander in Chief", or owner of a company
delegated decisions, which may be made by anyone. Decisions for example can be: The color of the bike shed can be delegated, as the decision must be made but the choice is inconsequential.
avoided decisions, where the outcome could be so severe that the choice should not be made, as the consequences can not be recovered from if the wrong choice is made. This will most likely result in negative actions, such as death.
"No-brainer" decisions, where the choice is so obvious that only one choice can reasonably be made.
A fifth type, however, (or fourth if "avoided" and "no-brainer" decisions are combined as one type), is the collaborative decision, made in consultation with, and by agreement of others. Collaborative Decision Making revolutionized air-traffic safety by not deferring to the captain when a lesser crew-member becomes aware of a problem.
Another way of looking at decisions focuses on the thought mechanism used - whether the decision is:

Rational
Intuitive
Recognition-based
Combination
Recognizing that "type" is an imprecise term, an alternate way to classify types of choices is to look at outcomes and the impacted entity. For example, using this approach three types of choices might be:

business
personal
consumer
Or politicians may choose to support or oppose options based on local, national, or international effects.
As a moral principle, decisions should be made by those most affected by the decision, but this is not normally applied to persons in jail, who might likely make a decision other than to remain in jail. Robert Gates cited this principle in allowing photographs of returning war-dead.
One can distinguish between conscious and unconscious choice.
Processes such as brainwashing or other  influencing strategies may have the effect of having unconscious choice masquerade as (praiseworthy) conscious choice.
Choices may lead to irreversible or to reversible outcomes; making irreversible choices (existential choices) may reduce choice overload.


== Evaluability in economics ==
When choosing between options one must make judgments about the quality of each option's attributes. For example, if one is choosing between candidates for a job, the quality of relevant attributes such as previous work experience, college or high school GPA, and letters of recommendation will be judged for each option and the decision will likely be based on these attribute judgments. However, each attribute has a different level of evaluability, that is, the extent to which one can use information from that attribute to make a judgment.
An example of a highly evaluable attribute is the SAT score. It is widely known in the United States that an SAT score below 800 is very bad while an SAT score above 1500 is exceptionally good. Because the distribution of scores on this attribute is relatively well known it is a highly evaluable attribute. Compare the SAT score to a poorly evaluable attribute, such as the number of hours spent doing homework. Most employers would not know what 10,000 hours spent doing homework means because t