New Concorde (NC) is an American Los Angeles, California based film distribution company founded by Roger Corman. NC got its start in 1983 when Corman formed the production and distribution Concorde-New Horizons (CNH) as one of the first production companies to develop and take advantage of video as a distribution tool.
The company was originally Concorde-New Horizons, which was itself created when Corman combined his two new companies Concorde Pictures (CP) and New Horizons Pictures in 1983. The company is now officially known as New Horizons Picture Corp.


== History ==


=== New World Pictures ===
Corman founded New World Productions (NWP) in 1970, and had been making low budget genre films until 1982.  When larger studios began producing the same genres with larger budgets that his company could not meet, and after being approached by a consortium of attorneys wishing to buy the company, he opted in 1982 to sell his interests.  


=== Millennium Films ===
Corman sold New World Pictures in January 1983 for $16.9 million. He retained all rights to his large back catalogue of films and took most members of his creative team with him. As he wrote "they had bought the dinosaur of distribution, leaving me with the film library and production staff."
Under the terms of the contract, he agreed to stay on as consultant for two years and that New World would guarantee to distribute any movies he made until February 1984, at a bargain rate fee of 15%. Corman agreed to provide the company with a minimum of five films they could release. He also undertook not to return to the distribution business.
Corman set up a new production company, Millennium - the title of which was taken from the name of a 1981 retrospective of Corman's work at the National Film Theatre of London. As the new owners of New World had taken over the old offices, Corman established offices for Millennium across the road from them in Brentwood.  He announced plans to make films budgeted between $2–5 million a pictur, using cash from his sale of New World. 
Corman claimed he wanted to make less commercial films, and the first film from Millennium (and the last from old New World) was a character drama Love Letters. Another early, more arthouse effort from Millenium was Wild Side which became Suburbia. Millennium's other films were more standard exploitation fare such as Space Raiders and Screwballs.
Corman found he disliked working in Brentwood so eventually shifted the offices to Corman's Venice studio. He was having trouble with the name "Millennium" - "‘Nobody could spell it, nobody knew what it meant" so in October of 1983, Millennium was renamed "New Horizons." 


=== Formation of Concorde Pictures ===
Some Corman films were released through the "new" New World, such as Love Letters, Deathstalker, Screwballs,  and Space Raiders but Corman was unhappy with the results. "They never gave my pictures a full release, and they never paid me the money the pictures earned," he claimed. 
In turn, the new owners of New World were unhappy with the advantageous deal given to Corman, and wanted to take the company public. Corman felt he had to go back into distribution, which was contrary to his agreement with New World. He later wrote, "The last thing I wanted to do was get back into distribution, but I had no choice. My pictures needed distribution and I needed the revenues."
In early 1985 Corman sued New World for breach of its obligations to him. In particular, he claimed that New World refused to distribute two of his films, School Spirit and Wheels of Fire, and that New World owed him money from Screwballs, Space Raiders and Slumber Pary Massacre. In turn New World sued him claiming Corman had been discrediting the company against new investors and clients, and had bypassed New World in seeking distribution for some of Corman's films, notably Hardbodies which had been partly financed by Corman but which had been sold to Columbia Pictures.
The matter went to court but 