The Treasury of Loyal Retainers (仮名手本忠臣蔵, Kana dehon Chūshingura) is an 11-act bunraku puppet play composed in 1748. It is one of the most popular Japanese plays, ranked with Zeami's Matsukaze, although the vivid action of Chūshingura differs dramatically from Matsukaze.


== Medium ==
During this portion of the Edo period, the major dramatists preferred not to write for the kabuki theater since the kabuki actors frequently departed from the texts to invent parts and aggrandize their own roles; however, Chūshingura was so successful that it was almost immediately adapted for the kabuki theater as well.
The general story has been depicted in many mediums such as ukiyo-e prints.


=== Kabuki ===
The kabuki adaptation appeared shortly after the puppet play did in Osaka and Kyoto, and soon was being performed by three companies in Edo. It is "only intermittently faithful" and frequently cuts entire acts. The saved time is available for a lengthier 11th act, with a sequence featuring a duel on a bridge; as well, the kabuki theater could use a revolving stage to switch between scenes of the siege in Act 9. The short sequence with the highwayman Sadakurō has been developed into an elaborate mime, rendering it a "coveted assignment" for ambitious actors.


== History ==


=== Composition ===

On 20 March 1703, the 46 rōnin were ordered to commit seppuku by the shōgun. Two weeks later, a kabuki play opened in Edo. It was entitled Akebono Soga no Youchi ("Night attack at dawn by the Soga [Brothers]"; see Soga Monogatari), a standard topic of plays. It was shut down by the authorities, and is thought to have been a disguised version of the recent events. Perhaps because of the touchiness of authorities, kabuki companies did not attempt any further plays on the subject.
In 1706, the great playwright Chikamatsu wrote a three-act puppet play entitled Goban Taiheiki ("A chronicle of great peace played on a chessboard"), placing the action in the era of Taiheiki (the 14th century); the third act appeared in another puppet play, and was ostensibly about the historical samurai Kō no Moronao; Moronao was actually a cipher for the offending master of court etiquette, Kira Yoshinaka, who was nearly slain by Asano Naganori. The use of Moronao's name for Kira and many of the other renamings would be copied in the later Chūshingura.
Three years later in the Kyoto-Osaka region where censorship was reportedly lighter, Chūshingura premiered.
It was an instant success, and was quickly imitated countless times, with variants coming out annually between 1706 and 1748.


=== Authorship ===
Early materials listed the authors in order as:

Takeda Izumo II
Miyoshi Shōraku
Namiki Senryū
Likely Izumo conceived the overall plot and write acts 1, 4, 6, & 9; Shōraku likely wrote 2, 10, and 11.
The fiction author Jippensha Ikku, in his analysis & anecdotal history Chūshingura Okame Hyōban (1803), implies that authorship was:

Izumo: Act 9
Shōraku: 2 & 10
Senryū: 4
Keene suggests that Acts 6 & 7 be assigned to Izumo, and Act 3 to Senryū.
These identifications are tentative, and not based on stylometry or similar approaches.
The multiple authorship may be responsible for some of the shifts characters undergo during the 11 acts:

"Sagisaka Bannai, for example, is a comical character in the third act, but by the seventh act there is hardly a trace left of his comicality, and at the end of the play the triumph of the loyal retainers is climaxed by killing Bannai, as if he, rather than Moronao, were the chief villain.
Again, Kakogawa Honzō fawningly offers bribes to Moronao in the third act by no means appears the same man as the heroic Honzō of the ninth act...

The same holds true of Rikiya; the blushing young man of the second act is so unlike the resolute hero of the ninth act as to require two actors."


=== Translations ===
A Chinese translation appeared by 1794, and translations into English, French, and German by 1880 - making it 'probably the first work of Japane