The Clan of the Cave Bear is a 1986 American adventure film directed by Michael Chapman and based on the book of the same name by Jean M. Auel. The film stars Daryl Hannah, Pamela Reed, James Remar, and Thomas G. Waites.
The film depicts a young Cro-Magnon woman (Hannah) who is separated from her family and orphaned during an earthquake. She is found and adopted by a group of Neanderthals. As the years go by, her intelligence causes disaster for the entire tribe, especially its future chief, Broud (Waites). Dialogue is conducted mostly through a form of sign language which is translated for the audience with subtitles.


== Plot ==
After losing her mother in an earthquake in Paleolithic Europe, 5-year-old Cro-Magnon Ayla is left alone in the woods. She then 
suffers a severe injury to her legs from a nearby cave lion. After suffering from starvation, exhaustion, and infection of her wounds, she collapses, on the verge of death. She is rescued by Iza, the healer of a group of Neanderthals who call themselves "The Clan," against the orders for her to be left to die by the clan's chief, Brun, because she is clearly a member of "the Others", the distrusted antagonists of the Clan. Brun refuses to accept Ayla when Iza adopts her, only allowing her to stay with the Clan because Iza refuses to abandon her. 
Through meditation, Iza's brother, Creb (the group's shaman), comes to believe that the child may be protected by the spirit of the cave lion, a powerful "totem that is never given to a woman and very few men. He cites the cave lion attack the girl experienced shortly before being discovered as proof that its spirit marked her so that she could be adopted into the Clan. After traveling with them for a while and starting to heal, Ayla wanders away from the group when they stop to discuss what they should do and she discovers a huge, beautiful cave, perfect for their needs; many of the people begin to regard Ayla as lucky, especially since good fortune continues to come their way as they begin to accept her in the fold.
Ayla's different thought processes lead her to break important Clan customs, particularly the taboo against females handling weapons. She is self-willed and spirited, but tries hard to fit in with the Neanderthals, although she has to learn everything first-hand; she does not possess the ancestral memories of the Clan which enable them to do certain tasks after being shown only once.
Iza reflects how ugly Ayla is (her unusual appearance compared to the rest of the Clan and Neanderthal standards). Iza is concerned that when Ayla grows up nobody will want her as their mate, making her a burden to the Clan. Seeking to increase Show's value and status, Iza trains her to be a medicine woman which will garner respect. Even without a mate, Ayla will have status.
Broud, the son of the tribe's leader Brun, has disdain for Ayla, and when they both reach adulthood, Broud brutally rapes Ayla in an impulsive bid to demonstrate his control over her. Broud continues to assault Ayla constantly, leaving her despondent, and she  becomes pregnant. Ayla witnesses Broud trying to master a sling with no success, she then takes it and secretly practices, soon becoming skilled with it. When a wolf attacks and is carrying off a small boy, Ayla is desperate to save the child and successfully kills the wolf with the sling. Grateful for her action, the clan reduces her punishment for using a weapon. Instead of killing her, they banish her from their settlement for a month, effectively a death sentence anyway. However, she finds shelter in another cave. Following a difficult childbirth, Ayla rejoices in the birth of a son. Struggling but able to survive harsh winter conditions, she returns to the tribe after her banishment period ends. She learns that her infant son Durc will be killed, as his appearance (being an amalgamation of Clan and Other features) is considered deformed and a precipitant of bad luck. However, Creb intervenes, appealing to