Cléo from 5 to 7 (French: Cléo de 5 à 7 [kle.o də sɛ̃k a sɛt]) is a 1962 French New Wave drama film written and directed by Agnès Varda.
The film follows Florence, a young singer known professionally as "Cléo Victoire", from 5 p.m. until 6:30 p.m. on June 21, as she waits to hear the results of a biopsy that will possibly confirm a diagnosis of stomach cancer. 
The film includes cameos by Jean-Luc Godard, Anna Karina, Eddie Constantine, and Jean-Claude Brialy as characters in a silent film, while composer Michel Legrand, who wrote the film's score, plays Bob, the pianist. It was entered into the 1962 Cannes Film Festival.


== Plot ==
Singer Cléo Victoire attends a tarot card reading with a fortune teller, who tells her there is an evil force in Cléo's life, and that she sees a doctor with a hazardous task. She also sees a meeting with a talkative young man in her future. The fortune teller then pulls The Hanged Man, meaning that a change for the worse is about to happen in Cléo's life, and asks if she is ill, which Cléo affirms. She then proceeds to pull Death. Although the fortune teller emphasises that the Death card can indicate a profound change in the person's life other than death itself, Cléo believes that she is doomed. She asks the fortune teller for a palm reading, but the fortune teller says that she cannot read palms.
While distraught from her visit to the fortune teller, Cléo meets her maid, Angèle, at a café and recounts the results of the tarot card reading. Professing her intention to kill herself if she does have cancer, Cléo cries, and the owner of the café gives her coffee to calm down. Cléo and Angèle then go hat shopping, where Cléo buys a black fur hat, despite Angèle telling her that it would be unsuitable for summer weather. Cléo wants to wear the hat home, but Angèle reminds her that it is bad luck to wear something new on a Tuesday. They have the shopkeeper send the hat to Cléo's home, and Cléo and Angèle take a taxi home in time for Cléo's rehearsal.
On the ride home, one of Cléo's songs plays, and they listen to the radio, hearing news coverage of the Algerian War. They have a conversation with the female taxi driver as she muses about the dangers of her job. Towards the end of the taxi ride, Cléo grows nauseated and attributes it to her illness. Upon returning home, Cléo cannot breathe, and Angèle tells her to do some exercise. Before Cléo's lover enters the building, Angèle tells Cléo not to tell him that she is ill because "men hate illness". Her lover, a very busy man, tells her that he only has time to stop by for a kiss and cannot go on a vacation with her, but will try to take her out on Friday night. Asking Cléo if she is ill, she replies that she is, but he does not take her seriously.
Once Cléo's lover leaves, Bob, a pianist, and Maurice, a songwriter, arrive at her home for a rehearsal. Bob and Maurice pretend to be doctors after Angèle tells them that Cléo is ill, because "all women like a good joke." However, Cléo does not find their joke funny. Bob goes to the piano, and they begin to practice some of Cléo's songs. As they practice, Cléo's mood quickly darkens after singing the song "Sans toi", which she interprets as ridiculing her fear of death. Saying that everyone spoils her but no one loves her, Cléo leaves.
On the way to a café, Cléo passes a street performer swallowing frogs and spitting them back out. She plays one of her songs at a jukebox in the café and watches if the people around react to it, but no one does. She then goes to a sculpting studio to visit her old friend Dorothée, who is modelling nude for a class of sculptors. After the modelling session is over, Cléo tells Dorothée that she would feel exposed in the nude, while Dorothée claims that her body makes her happy, not proud. Dorothée picks up a package for her friend Raoul, who lent her his car to take it to the cinema where he works. On the way, Cléo tells Dorothée that she is waiting for a test result and afrai