The Color Purple is a 2023 American musical period drama film directed by Blitz Bazawule. Marcus Gardley's screenplay is based on the stage musical of the same name, which in turn is based on the 1982 novel of the same name by Alice Walker. It is the second film adaptation of the novel, following the 1985 film directed by Steven Spielberg and produced by Spielberg and Quincy Jones. Spielberg and Jones return as producers for the 2023 film, along with its Broadway producers Scott Sanders and Oprah Winfrey, the latter of whom also starred in the 1985 film.
The film stars Taraji P. Henson, Danielle Brooks, Colman Domingo, Corey Hawkins, H.E.R., Halle Bailey, Phylicia Pearl Mpasi, and Fantasia Barrino in her film debut. Brooks and Barrino reprise their roles from the productions of the stage musical. It tells the story of Celie, an African American woman dealing with the hardships of living with an abusive husband and living in the American South during the early 1900s.
The Color Purple premiered in London on November 20, 2023, and was released in the United States on December 25, 2023, by Warner Bros. Pictures. Although it received positive reviews from critics, it performed poorly at the box office grossing $67.5 million against a budget of $90-100 million. Danielle Brooks was lauded for her performance, receiving nominations for the Academy Award, BAFTA Award, Golden Globe Award, and Screen Actors Guild Award for Best Supporting Actress. At the 55th NAACP Image Awards, the film won a record-breaking eleven awards out of sixteen nominations, including Outstanding Motion Picture and acting wins for Barrino, Henson, Domingo, and the ensemble cast.


== Plot ==
In 1909 Georgia, teenager Celie Harris lives with her sister Nettie and abusive father Alfonso. Her mother died after which Alfonso started raping Celie; this causes her to become pregnant twice. When Celie gives birth to her second child, Alfonso takes the child away as he had done with the first. He then forces her to marry a local farmer and father of three, Albert "Mister" Johnson.
When Alfonso tries to molest Nettie, she moves into Mister's farmhouse until he exiles her when she rebuffs his advances. She promises to write to Celie every day before leaving. By 1917, Celie is still married to Mister, while his son Harpo marries fierce, defiant Sofia. Harpo tries to build a house, but later turns it into a juke joint. Celie befriends Sofia, but she leaves Harpo when he tries to beat her.
One day, independent jazz singer Shug Avery comes to town to perform at the joint. Harpo has been seeing another woman named Mary "Squeak" Agnes. When he tries to dance with Sofia, Mary Agnes cuts in and ends up starting a fight that trashes the joint. Celie begs Shug to stay with her, but Shug decides to bring her instead. When they return to Mister's home, Shug finds and reveals to Celie a letter in the mailbox addressed to Celie from Nettie, revealing that Nettie has been living in Africa.
Back in Georgia in 1930, Sofia is called out by the mayor's wife to be her maid, but she refuses and gets involved in a physical fight, resulting in her arrest. She is released after six years and ends up having to work for the mayor's wife anyway, sinking into a deep depression that seemingly takes away all of her fierceness.
On Easter Sunday in 1943, Celie confronts Mister in front of his father and their family and leaves him along with Shug. Mary Agnes goes with them to Memphis, inspiring Sofia out of her stupor. Celie vows to Mister that until he does right by her, everything in his life will crumble.
In 1945, when Alfonso dies, it is revealed by his wife that he was not Celie or Nettie's biological father, and through their mother, both sisters own the grocery store and the home they were brought up in. Celie starts up a pants clothing shop with help from Shug, Sofia, and Mary Agnes. Meanwhile, Mister has become a miserable drunk. He vows to do right by Celie and later visits her shop and buys a