"Coming Home" (commonly referred to by unofficial titles such as the Folgers Incest Ad or the Folgers "Brother and Sister" Commercial) is a 2009 television commercial for Folgers Coffee. The commercial was created by the advertising agency Saatchi & Saatchi with the intention of emulating Folgers's 1980s commercial "Peter Comes Home For Christmas". The commercial became infamous after many viewers perceived that the brother-sister main characters were either engaged in or desired an incestuous relationship. The commercial inspired multiple works of fan fiction (collectively referred to as "Folgercest" or "Folgerscest"), including an entire section on the website Archive of Our Own; fan art; and parody videos.


== Plot ==
Writing for GQ, Gabriella Paiella described the plot as follows:

"Coming Home" opens with a taxi dropping a young man off outside a snow-covered house bedecked in Christmas decorations early one morning. A young woman excitedly opens the door and establishes that she's his sister by pointing at herself and saying "sister!" He's weary, having just returned from volunteering in "West Africa," and the two share a cup of freshly-brewed Folgers coffee while their parents are still asleep. (In some versions he even says "ah, real coffee," as if he didn't just come from where some of the best coffee in the world is produced.) He hands her a small present, but instead of opening it, she peels off the red bow and sticks it on his shirt. "What are you doing?" he asks. "You're my present this year," she responds. The camera zooms in on her shy glance, then cuts to his furtive, flirty smile.
Their parents then enter the kitchen and greet the brother as the jingle "The best part of waking up, is Folgers in your cup" plays.


== Background ==
In 1985, Folgers released a long-running commercial called "Peter Comes Home For Christmas". In that commercial, a man named "Peter" comes home and is greeted by his younger sister, who is a little girl (as opposed to a teenager). An additional inspiration was that writer Doug Pippin's son had recently joined the Peace Corps and came home for Christmas.


== Legacy ==
For the advertisement's tenth anniversary in 2019, GQ interviewed people involved in creating it.


== References ==


== External links ==
"Coming Home" advertisement on YouTube