The Confessional (French: Le Confessionnal) is a 1995 mystery-drama film directed by Robert Lepage.
The film is set in Quebec City, in two distinct time periods. In the present day, Pierre Lamontagne (Lothaire Bluteau) searches for his estranged brother Marc (Patrick Goyette) to help unravel a family mystery. The mystery itself unfolds in flashbacks set against the backdrop of Alfred Hitchcock's 1952 filming of I Confess in the city.
The cast also includes Ron Burrage as Hitchcock, Kristin Scott Thomas as his assistant, and Jean-Louis Millette as Raymond Massicotte, Marc's lover who also holds the key to unlocking the Lamontagne family's secrets.


== Plot ==
The Confessional is set in Quebec City in 1952, during the time Alfred Hitchcock was filming I Confess. The city is transitioning into the modern era due to the advent of television and its initial exposure to Hollywood. A character resembling Hitchcock is depicted during the local premiere of I Confess.
The story shifts between events in the early '50s and 1989. In 1989, Pierre Lamontagne returns to Quebec City from China for his father's funeral. He struggles to find his adopted brother, Marc. They eventually reunite in a gay sauna. The brothers embark on a quest to discover Marc’s biological father, initially believed to be a parish priest. Their mother, Rachel, after multiple visits to the confessional, gave birth to Marc and later took her own life.
The film often revisits the making of I Confess, centering on Hitchcock's assistant as she interacts with the local church and organizes auditions for Hitchcock. Various characters, such as a mysterious gentleman, play significant roles in the unfolding narrative.


== Cast ==
Lothaire Bluteau as Pierre Lamontagne
Patrick Goyette as Marc Lamontagne
Jean-Louis Millette as Raymond Massicotte
Kristin Scott Thomas as Assistant to Hitchcock
Ron Burrage as Alfred Hitchcock
Richard Fréchette as André Lamontagne
François Papineau as Paul-Émile Lamontagne
Marie Gignac as Françoise Lamontagne
Normand Daneau as The Young Priest Massicotte
Anne-Marie Cadieux as Manon
Suzanne Clément as Rachel
Lynda Lepage-Beaulieu as Jeanne d'Arc
Pascal Rollin as The Parish Priest Laliberte
Billy Merasty as Moose
Paul Hébert as The Parish Priest (1989)


== Awards and nominations ==
The Confessional won the Genie Award for Best Picture and the Claude Jutra Award for the best feature film by a first-time director at the 16th Genie Awards. The film was selected as the Canadian entry for the Best Foreign Language Film at the 68th Academy Awards, but was not accepted as a nominee.
In 2001, an industry poll conducted by Playback named it the 13th best Canadian film of the preceding 15 years.


== See also ==
List of films featuring diabetes
List of submissions to the 68th Academy Awards for Best Foreign Language Film
List of Canadian submissions for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film


== References ==


== External links ==
The Confessional at IMDb 
The Confessional at Rotten Tomatoes
The Confessional at AllMovie
Canadian Film Encyclopedia