The Conversation is a 1974 American neo-noir mystery thriller film written, produced, and directed by Francis Ford Coppola and starring Gene Hackman, John Cazale, Allen Garfield, Cindy Williams, Frederic Forrest, Harrison Ford, Teri Garr, and Robert Duvall. Hackman portrays a surveillance expert who faces a moral dilemma when his recordings reveal a potential murder.
The Conversation premiered at the 1974 Cannes Film Festival, where it won the Palme d'Or, the festival's highest prize, and was released theatrically on April 7, 1974, by Paramount Pictures to critical acclaim but box office disappointment, grossing $4.4 million on a $1.6 million budget. The film received three nominations at the 47th Academy Awards: Best Picture, Best Original Screenplay, and Best Sound.
In 1995, it was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant".


== Plot ==
Harry Caul, a surveillance expert in San Francisco, specializes in wiretapping services. He and his team are hired by a client, who identifies himself as "the Director", to eavesdrop on a couple walking through Union Square. Despite the background noise, Caul filters and merges the tapes to create a clear recording with ambiguous meaning. Caul is intensely private, obsessively guarding his own personal life, haunted by guilt from a past job that resulted in three deaths.
Despite Caul's insistence that he is not responsible for how his clients use the surveillance, he is troubled by guilt and his Catholic faith. When he discovers a potentially dangerous phrase in the recording, "He'd kill us if he got the chance," Caul becomes increasingly paranoid. His attempt to deliver the recording is thwarted, and he believes he is being followed and tricked.
After a party at his workshop, Caul spends the night with a woman, Meredith, and the tapes are stolen. He receives a call from Martin Stett, the Director's assistant, informing him that they have the tapes, and that the Director couldn't wait any longer, so Caul must also deliver the pictures taken, and collect his money in a meeting with them, that same day. In that meeting, Caul learns that the woman in the recording is the Director's wife, involved in an affair. Caul, suspecting murder, books a hotel room next to the one mentioned in the recording, and overhears a heated argument. Convinced he has overheard a murder, Caul breaks into the room; he initially finds no evidence, until he casually flushes the toilet and finds it clogged and overflowing with blood.
Attempting to confront the Director, Caul discovers the wife is alive and unharmed, as is her lover. A newspaper headline reveals an executive's supposed death in a car accident, leading Caul to realize that the couple actually murdered the Director. He missed the emphasis on "us" in the recording, not only signifying the couple's fear of being killed by the Director if he discovered the affair, but also their own plan to murder him first.
Stett calls Caul at his apartment, and warns him not to investigate, playing a recording of Caul's saxophone to prove they are listening. Caul frantically searches for bugs in his apartment, destroying nearly everything except his saxophone. In the end, Caul is left alone amid the wreckage, playing his saxophone, the only intact part of his life.


== Cast ==


== Production ==
Principal photography began November 27, 1972, and finished in late February 1973. Coppola has cited Michelangelo Antonioni's Blowup (1966) as a key influence on his conceptualization of the film's themes, such as surveillance versus participation, and perception versus reality. "Francis had seen [it] a year or two before, and had the idea to fuse the concept of Blowup with the world of audio surveillance."
On the DVD commentary, Coppola says he was shocked to learn that the film used the same surveillance and wire-tapping equipment that members of the Nixon Admini