Cop Land is a 1997 American neo-noir crime drama film written and directed by James Mangold. It stars an ensemble cast that includes Sylvester Stallone, Harvey Keitel, Ray Liotta, and Robert De Niro, with Peter Berg, Janeane Garofalo, Robert Patrick, Michael Rapaport, Annabella Sciorra, Noah Emmerich, and Cathy Moriarty in supporting roles. Stallone portrays the sheriff of a small New Jersey town who comes into conflict with the corrupt New York City police officers living in the community. The film received positive reviews and grossed $63.7 million on a $15 million budget.


== Plot ==
The town of Garrison, New Jersey is home to a cadre of policemen from the NYPD's 37th Precinct: Lt. Ray Donlan, Det. Leo Crasky, and officers Gary Figgis, Jack Rucker, Frank Lagonda, and Joey Randone. Exploiting a loophole in department regulations allowing them to live outside the city by being designated "auxiliary transit cops", Donlan and his group are effectively untouchable by the NYPD's Internal Affairs division and are further protected by Sheriff Freddy Heflin. Unable to fulfill his lifelong dream of joining the NYPD due to deafness in one ear after nearly drowning while rescuing a woman years earlier, Heflin idolizes Donlan and refuses to help IA investigator Lt. Moe Tilden in his attempt to build a case against the dirty cops.
One night, Donlan's nephew, Officer Murray Babitch, is sideswiped by two African-American teens while driving across the George Washington Bridge. One of the teens points what looks like a weapon at Babitch just as his tire blows out from a glass puncture; a frightened Babitch shoots them both dead. Donlan, Rucker, and Crasky show up and try to plant a gun in the teens' car, only to get caught by a paramedic. In desperation, Donlan convinces Babitch to fake his suicide before hiding him in Garrison with a promise that he will set him up with a new identity.
Randone's wife Liz — the woman Heflin saved from drowning — visits Heflin at his home and they confess their feelings for each other. Meanwhile, Figgis is kicked out of Donlan's circle, and his house burns down soon after with his girlfriend inside; Heflin lets him stay at his home thinking that Donlan tried to kill him. Fearing that Babitch will expose him, Donlan unsuccessfully tries to drown his nephew. Babitch then goes to Heflin for help but flees when he sees Figgis. While on patrol, Randone is attacked and thrown over the edge of a building; Donlan deliberately lets him fall in retaliation for Randone's affair with his wife Rose.
Tired of being pushed around by Donlan and his men, Heflin visits Tilden to offer his help with the investigation, only to learn that the mayor, under pressure from Donlan's allies in the police union, has ordered IA to cease investigating. As Heflin leaves, he steals discarded IA files that reveal Donlan's ties to the mob. Donlan used those connections to create a safe haven in Garrison while trafficking drugs through the 37th Precinct, even having a cop who sought to testify against him stabbed to death in his jail cell.
Heflin brings the files to his deputies Cindy and Bill, but Cindy, tired of the corruption in Garrison, resigns from her post. Rucker tries to intimidate Heflin over his IA visit at a carnival pistol game, but he's surprised to find that Heflin is a crack shot. While later sharing dinner, a rattled Liz chides Heflin for digging into Donlan and accuses him of trying to take Randone's place in her life. Resigned, he walks away from her.
After Lagonda threatens him at gunpoint, Heflin looks into the fire at Figgis' house and realizes that it was arson. Figgis admits that he started the fire to commit insurance fraud so he could leave Garrison and start over. The two men argue, and Figgis abandons Heflin and drives away. Heflin goes to Rose and convinces her to reveal where Babitch is hiding, planning to hand him over to Tilden. After sending Bill away for his own protection, Heflin walks Babitch over to his c