Courage Under Fire is a 1996 American war drama film directed by Edward Zwick, and starring Denzel Washington and Meg Ryan. It is the second collaboration between Washington and director Zwick. The film was released in the United States on July 12, 1996, to positive reviews and grossed $100 million worldwide.


== Plot ==
While serving in the Persian Gulf War, Lieutenant Colonel Serling accidentally fires on and destroys one of his own tanks during a confusing nighttime battle, killing his friend, Lieutenant Boylar. The United States Army covers up the details, awards Serling a medal for bravery, and transfers him to a desk job.
Later, Serling is assigned to determine if, posthumously, Captain Karen Walden should be the first woman to receive the Medal of Honor. She was the commander of a Medevac Huey helicopter sent to rescue the crew of a shot-down Black Hawk helicopter. When Walden encountered a T-54 enemy tank, her crew destroyed it by dropping a fuel bladder onto the tank and igniting it with a flare gun. Her own helicopter was shot down soon after. The two crews were unable to join forces, and when the survivors were rescued the next day, Walden was reported dead.
Serling notices inconsistencies among the testimonies of Walden's crew. Specialist Andrew Ilario, the medic, praises Walden strongly. Staff Sergeant John Monfriez claims that Walden was a coward and that he led the crew in combat and improvised the fuel bladder weapon. Sergeant Altameyer, who is dying of cancer in a hospital and was initially hard for Serling to find, complains about a fire in one of his few coherent comments. Warrant Officer Rady, the co-pilot, was injured early on and was unconscious throughout the ordeal. The crew of the Black Hawk claim that they heard firing from an M16 rifle, but Ilario and Monfriez claim it was out of ammo.
Serling is under pressure from the White House and his commander, Brigadier General Hershberg, to wrap things up quickly. Feeling guilty about the cover up in the friendly fire incident, Serling leaks the existence of a tape of the attack to newspaper reporter Tony Gartner. When Serling grills Monfriez during a car ride, Monfriez forces him to get out of the vehicle at gunpoint, then commits suicide by driving into an oncoming train.
Serling tracks Ilario down, and Ilario finally tells him the truth. Monfriez wanted to flee, which would mean abandoning Rady. When Walden refused, he pulled a gun on her and Walden threatened him with a court-martial for mutiny and ordered that he surrender his gun. During the stand-off over Monfriez's gun Walden  shot an enemy who suddenly appeared behind Monfriez; Monfriez thinking it was Walden firing at him shot her in the stomach, before backing off. The next morning, the enemy attacked again as a rescue party approached. Walden covered her men's retreat, firing an M16. Monfriez told the rescuers that Walden was dead, so they left without her. Napalm was then dropped on the entire area. Altameyer tried to expose Monfriez's lie at the time, but was too injured to speak, and Ilario remained silent, scared of the court-martial Walden had threatened them with.
Serling presents his final report to Hershberg. Walden's young daughter receives the Medal of Honor at a White House ceremony. Later, Serling tells the truth to the Boylars about the manner of their son's death and says he cannot ask for forgiveness. The Boylars forgive him.
In the last moments, Serling has a flashback of when he was standing by Boylar's destroyed tank and a medevac Huey was lifting off with his friend's body. Serling suddenly realizes Walden was the pilot.


== Cast ==

Members of the Corps of Cadets of Texas A&M University were cast as soldiers in the basic training scenes.


== Reception ==


=== Box office ===
U.S. domestic gross: US$ 59,031,057 
International: $41,829,761
Worldwide gross: $100,860,818
The film opened #3 at the box office behind Independence Day and Phenomenon.


=== Critical response ===
The 