Crazy in Alabama is a 1999 American comedy-drama film directed by Antonio Banderas and based on Mark Childress' 1993 novel of the same name. The film stars Melanie Griffith as an abused housewife who becomes an actress, while her nephew deals with a racially motivated murder involving a corrupt sheriff. It marked Dakota Johnson's film debut.


== Plot ==
In 1965 Alabama, Peter Joseph "Peejoe" Bullis lives in a small town at the height of the Civil Rights Movement. Peejoe's eccentric Aunt Lucille Vinson kills her husband Chester with poison, after suffering years of domestic abuse. She decapitates him and brings his severed head with her en route to Hollywood, where she is convinced that television stardom awaits her. In New Orleans, Lucille buys a black hat box to store Chester's head. When a bartender on Bourbon Street insults her, she threatens him with a revolver, before stealing the money from the cash register and his car. Back in Alabama, Peejoe's uncle (Lucille's brother), Dove, a local funeral director, is notified of the incident. While traveling, Lucille becomes increasingly paranoid, convinced Chester's ghost is haunting her.
Meanwhile, Peejoe becomes involved with a group of black students protesting the town's racially segregated municipal swimming pool, leading to a violent protest. A young black boy, Taylor Jackson, is killed by the town sheriff, John Doggett. Peejoe, the only witness, is pressured by the sheriff to keep it quiet. While mowing his lawn, Peejoe is struck in the eye with a rock; the townspeople circulate a false story that he was shot in retaliation for Taylor's death. The black townspeople stage a protest honoring Taylor in which they enter the swimming pool. Peejoe and his brother, Wiley, join them in support, but the protest is interrupted by police and white pro-Confederates.
Lucille wins $32,000 in Las Vegas while playing roulette at a casino, and subsequently pays for a personal driver, Norman, to bring her to Los Angeles. She arrives in Hollywood, taking the stage name Carolyn Clay, and manages to land a minor role on Bewitched. Back in Alabama, Peejoe and Wiley attend a speech by Martin Luther King Jr., and Peejoe's racist aunt Earline grows infuriated over the publicity involving the family. While watching television one night, they are all surprised to see Lucille on television.
At an industry party in the Hollywood Hills, hostess Joan Blake discovers Chester's severed head in Lucille's hat box. Lucille flees with Norman to San Francisco, and tries to get rid of the head by throwing it off the Golden Gate Bridge. Two policemen, thinking she is attempting suicide, stop her and discover the head. She is arrested and escorted back to Alabama for her trial, where she is met by a media circus. In the local jail, Lucille is incarcerated in a cell next to Nehemiah Jackson, Taylor's father who has been jailed over the protest.
After being convicted of first-degree murder, Lucille is sentenced to twenty years in prison. However, the sentence is suspended when she earns the judge's sympathies after testifying to the abuse she received, and she is put on a five-year probation with the condition that she seek psychiatric help. Lucille, her children, and all her friends joyfully exit the courtroom while the sheriff (through Peejoe's testimony) is put under arrest for Taylor's murder.


== Cast ==


== Production ==
The film was shot in Houma, Louisiana, Schriever, Chackbay, New Orleans, Las Vegas, San Francisco and Los Angeles.


== Reception ==
The film received mixed-to-negative reviews from critics, scoring a 30% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on 56 reviews, with the site's consensus stating: "Melanie Griffith gets kudos for her performance, but the movie just doesn't seem to come together." The film holds a score of 46 out of 100 on Metacritic based on 27 reviews.
Roger Ebert of the Chicago Sun-Times called the film "an ungainly fit of three stories that have no business being shoehorne