Creepshow is an American horror anthology television series that was released on Shudder in 2019. The series serves as a continuation of the 1982 film of the same name and features twenty five episodes with two horror stories per episode. The series premiered on September 26, 2019.
On October 30, 2019, the series was renewed for a second season. On October 30, 2020, an animated special titled A Creepshow Animated Special was released. On November 10, 2020, it was announced that a holiday special titled A Creepshow Holiday Special would premiere on December 18, 2020.
On February 18, 2021, the series was renewed for a third season, and the second season premiered on April 1, 2021. The third season debuted on September 23, 2021.
On February 10, 2022, the series was renewed for a fourth season. The fourth season premiered on October 13, 2023.


== Premise ==
The Creep shows audience members darkly grim horror stories from the pages of the Creepshow comic book. Each story evokes the traits of a comic book like the first Creepshow film and shows some occasional advertisements of horror products promoted in the comics. The stories detail different things including but not limited to demons, ghosts, vampires, werewolves, and zombies.


== Episodes ==


== Production ==


=== Development ===
In July 2018, the Creepshow television series was announced, with Greg Nicotero listed as a producer and streaming service Shudder as the distributor.
As in the original Creepshow, the Creep is a full-bodied puppet that delivers gags (mostly featured in the cold openings of each episode) through nonverbal cues or laughter. There were some episodes that used an animated version of the Creep.


=== Adaptations ===
On January 16, 2019, it was announced that one of the segments of the pilot episode would be based on Stephen King's short story, "Survivor Type" from his 1985 collection Skeleton Crew; however, that story was ultimately not used for the first season and was instead part of the animated Halloween special that aired in 2020.
As with the feature films, the series draws from short story fiction. Subsequently, the following were also announced as the basis for stories:

Gray Matter by Stephen King
By the Silver Water of Lake Champlain by Joe Hill
The Companion by Joe R. Lansdale
The House of the Head by Josh Malerman
The Man in the Suitcase by Christopher Buehlman
All Hallows Eve by Bruce Jones
Times Is Tough in Musky Holler by John Skipp and Dori Miller
The Finger by David J. Schow
Survivor Type teleplay by Greg Nicotero based on short story by Stephen King
Twittering from the Circus of the Dead teleplay by Melanie Dale based on short story by Joe Hill
Shapeshifters Anonymous by J. A. Konrath
Mums by Joe Hill
Grieving Process by Mike D. McCarty
Original stories announced include:

Lydia Layne's Better Half by John Harrison and Greg Nicotero
Skincrawlers written by Paul Dini and Stephen Langford
Night of the Paw by John Esposito
Bad Wolf Down by Rob Schrab
Model Kid by John Esposito
Public Television Of The Dead by Rob Schrab
Dead and Breakfast by Michael Rousselet and Erik Sandoval
Pesticide by Frank Dietz
The Right Snuff by Paul Dini, Stephen Langford and Greg Nicotero
Sibling Rivalry by Melanie Dale
Pipe Screams by Daniel Kraus
Within the Walls of Madness by John Esposito and Greg Nicotero
Night of the Living Late Show by Dana Gould
Queen Bee by Erik Sandoval and Michael Rousselet
Skeletons in the Closet by John Esposito
Familiar by Josh Malerman
The Last Tsuburaya by Paul Dini and Stephen Langford
Okay, I'll Bite by John Harrison
Stranger Sings by Jordana Arkin
Meter Reader by John Esposito
Time Out by Barrington Smith and Paul Seetachit
The Things in Oakwood's Past by Greg Nicotero and Daniel Kraus
Drug Traffic by Mattie Do & Christopher Larsen
A Dead Girl Named Sue by Heather Anne Campbell
Twenty Minutes with Cassandra by Jamie Flanagan
Smile by Mike Scannell
The Hat by Byron Willinger & Philip de Blasi
The Parent Deathtrap by Erik Sandov