D3: The Mighty Ducks (also known as The Mighty Ducks 3) is a 1996 American sports comedy-drama film directed by Robert Lieberman and sequel to the 1994 film D2: The Mighty Ducks. It is the third and final installment in The Mighty Ducks trilogy and was produced by Walt Disney Pictures and distributed by Buena Vista Pictures Distribution. The film stars Emilio Estevez, Jeffrey Nordling, Heidi Kling, and Joss Ackland. Estevez, Kling, Ackland, Joshua Jackson, Elden Henson, Shaun Weiss, Matt Doherty, Garette Ratliff Henson, Marguerite Moreau, Vincent Larusso, Aaron Lohr, Ty O'Neal, Kenan Thompson, Mike Vitar, Colombe Jacobsen, and Justin Wong reprise their roles from the previous films in the series with Scott Whyte, who played Gunnar in the second film, returning in a different role.


== Plot ==
After their victory at the Junior Goodwill Games, youth ice-hockey team The Mighty Ducks and their captain Charlie Conway are awarded junior varsity hockey scholarships to Eden Hall Academy, a prestigious Minneapolis-area prep school that Coach Bombay attended. Charlie struggles with his transition from childhood to adolescence; he's outraged at Bombay, who is leaving the Ducks to take a job with the Junior Goodwill Games. In addition, Dean Portman and Jesse Hall have not accepted the scholarships, and thus will not be joining the team. Bombay informs Charlie prior to the start of classes that the team will be in good hands under the coaching of former NHL player Ted Orion.
The Ducks' start at the school begins unfavorably. The team faces new challenges, including bullying from the championship-winning Varsity team, the Warriors. Coach Orion is much sterner than Bombay, and insists on learning a new "two-way hockey" defensive style that abandons several Duck traditions and old in-game "trick" plays. These changes lead to Charlie and Orion butting heads, and Orion later strips Charlie of his team captaincy. The team loses Adam Banks when he qualifies to play for Varsity. The Ducks struggle in their opening game of the season, giving up a large lead to the other school. Later, Varsity challenges the Ducks to an unsanctioned early morning match to settle their differences; the Ducks are decisively routed. Witnessing this, Orion revokes the Ducks jerseys, declaring "The Ducks are dead". This causes Charlie to quit the team to return to public school and seek a hockey career. Fulton initially follows, but ultimately returns to the team without Charlie.
Charlie's acting out alienates him from his mother, teammates, and an ailing Hans. Hans suddenly dies, and Bombay comes to Charlie's house the day after the funeral to take him back to Eden Hall. He tells Charlie that Orion's career with the Minnesota North Stars ended when the team moved to Dallas and he stayed to care for his paraplegic daughter. Bombay tells Charlie the background story on how he first came to coach the Ducks and says he told Orion that Charlie was the heart and soul of the team, and it was his hope that both Orion and Charlie would learn something from each other. Emotionally touched by his words and feeling remorse over his behavior towards Orion and his fellow Ducks, Charlie agrees to rejoin the team.
Arriving at the team bus for the next game, Charlie tells Orion he wants to play "two-way hockey". Surprised but pleased, Coach Orion welcomes him back. Before they depart, Dean Buckley, the school's headmaster, informs the team that its board of trustees wants to revoke the Ducks' scholarships and offers Orion a chance to start anew with a team of his choice. Satisfied with the team, Orion balks at the news, threatening resignation. At a board meeting the following day, Bombay, who was a practicing lawyer before coaching the Ducks, acts as the Ducks' attorney and fights successfully for their case, threatening the board with an injunction and promising to win the resulting lawsuit if the board expels the Ducks. The board reinstates the Duck's scholarships with much reluctan