"Dazed and Confused" is a song written by American singer-songwriter Jake Holmes in 1967. Performed in a folk rock-style, he recorded it for his debut album "The Above Ground Sound" of Jake Holmes.  Although some concluded that it was about a bad acid trip, Holmes insists the lyrics refer to the effects of a girl's indecision on ending a relationship.
After hearing Holmes perform the song in August 1967, English rock group the Yardbirds reworked it with a new arrangement. It soon became a centerpiece of their tours, several recordings of which have been released, including on Yardbirds '68, produced by guitarist Jimmy Page.
In 1968 "Dazed and Confused", with new lyrics and vocal line, was recorded by Page's new group for their debut album, Led Zeppelin. It became a signature song and concert staple for much of the group's career.  Holmes attempted to contact Page in the 1980s regarding the songwriting credit, but received no response.  In 2010, Holmes filed a lawsuit and the matter was settled out of court, with the credit on Led Zeppelin releases being changed to "Jimmy Page, inspired by Jake Holmes".


== Background and composition ==
Jake Holmes began his music career in the early 1960s, and recorded and performed with several different groups. He was influenced by psychedelic rock and groups such as the Byrds and the Blues Project, and wrote "Dazed and Confused" in a similar style with a blues influence. In early 1967, he recorded the song for his debut solo album "The Above Ground Sound" of Jake Holmes, as a trio of acoustic guitar, electric guitar, and bass. On July 10, it was released on the Tower Records label.
The arrangement is a modular dirge in the key of E minor built on a descending chromatic bass line alternating between the 3rd (E-G-F#-F-E) and the 7th (E-D-C#-C-B). Holmes' singing has been described as "pained", and the lyrics ("you're out to get me/you're on the right track") and ("I'm being abused/I'm better off dead"), coupled with the arrangement led some people to think the song was about a bad acid trip. However, Holmes said it was a song about a girl.
In August 1967, Holmes opened for the Yardbirds at a Greenwich Village gig in New York. According to Holmes, "That was the infamous moment of my life when 'Dazed and Confused' fell into the loving arms and hands of Jimmy Page." He was aware of the song appearing on Led Zeppelin's eponymous debut album less than two years later, but did not take any action at the time. In the early 1980s, he wrote to the group and asked for a co-credit, but received no reply.
In June 2010, Holmes sued Led Zeppelin guitarist Jimmy Page for copyright infringement, claiming to be the author of "Dazed and Confused" In court documents, he cited a 1967 copyright registration for the song, which was renewed in 1995. On January 17, 2012, the case was "dismissed with prejudice" after the parties reached an undisclosed settlement out of court.


== The Yardbirds ==


=== Background ===
By late 1966, English rock group the Yardbirds had moved away from recording hit singles towards regular touring. In July 1967, they began their second tour of the US as a quartet, with Jimmy Page as the sole guitarist. The group performed at more countercultural venues, such as the Fillmore Auditorium in San Francisco.  Their sets became more varied with extended medleys and featured guitar instrumentals by Page, such as "White Summer" and "Glimpses".
On August 25, 1967, the group headlined at the Village Theater in New York City, with opening acts the Youngbloods and Jake Holmes. Yardbirds drummer Jim McCarty was the only Yardbird to catch Holmes' performance. He liked "Dazed and Confused" and bought the album the next day, subsequently playing it to the rest of the band. They reworked the song, focusing the arrangements based on the descending bass line. Page added additional guitar riffs in the middle of the song.


=== Composition ===
The Yardbirds began to develop a new arrangement for "Dazed and