Dead Again is a 1991 neo-noir romantic thriller film directed by Kenneth Branagh and written by Scott Frank. It stars Branagh and Emma Thompson, with Andy García, Derek Jacobi, Hanna Schygulla, Wayne Knight and Robin Williams appearing in supporting roles.
Dead Again was a moderate box-office success, and received positive reviews from the majority of critics. Jacobi was nominated for a BAFTA Award for Best Actor in a Supporting Role, and Patrick Doyle, who composed the film's music, was nominated for a Golden Globe for Best Original Score.


== Plot ==
Newspapers detail the 1948 murder of Margaret Strauss, who was stabbed during a robbery; her anklet is missing. Her husband, composer Roman Strauss, is found guilty of the crime and condemned to death. Before his execution, Roman is visited by reporter, Gray Baker. Asked if he killed Margaret, Roman appears to whisper something in Baker's ear. Baker does not disclose Roman's answer.
Forty-three years later, private detective, Mike Church, investigates the identity of a woman who has appeared at the orphanage where he grew up. She has amnesia, cannot speak and has nightmares. Mike takes her in, and asks his friend, Pete Dugan, to publish her picture and his contact info. Antiques dealer and hypnotist, Franklyn Madson, approaches Mike, suggesting that hypnosis may help her to recover her memory.
When the session is unsuccessful, Madson suggests that they experiment with past life regression. Mike is skeptical, but the woman details Margaret and Roman's lives in the third person, from courtship to their wedding. When the session ends, she can speak, but still has amnesia. Madson shows them Life magazine articles covering the murder. Mike and the woman bear a striking resemblance to Roman and Margaret. Mike visits former psychiatrist, Cozy Carlisle, who insists that they continue to see Madson; asserting that delving into the problems between Margaret and Roman may resolve her amnesia.
Mike nicknames the woman "Grace", and falls in love with her. A man named Doug appears, and claims that she is his fiancée, Katherine, but Mike discovers that he is lying and chases him off. Hypnotized, Grace remembers that Roman suffered from writer's block, and was broke, despite the vestiges of his earlier wealth. He believes that Margaret is flirting with Baker, who she met on their wedding day. Margaret cannot convince him that she is faithful, and catches Frankie, the son of their housekeeper, Inga, looking through her jewelry box. She asks Roman to dismiss Inga, but Roman refuses, saying that Inga saved his life in Nazi Germany.
Grace sees Mike standing over Margaret with scissors, and is convinced he intends to kill her. Mike insists that he would never hurt her, but when he accidentally calls her "Margaret", he agrees to let Madson regress him. During his regression, he realizes that he was actually Margaret (and that Grace was actually Roman), but is unable to tell Madson nor Grace about this revelation.
Pete Dugan tells Mike that he has identified Grace as artist, Amanda Sharp. It is discovered that she lost her memory due to getting mugged one night. Amanda (Grace), still afraid of Mike, accompanies Dugan and Madson to her apartment; her artwork focuses on scissors. Madson gives her a gun to protect herself from Mike. Mike visits Gray Baker in a nursing home, and asks him about Roman's secret, but Baker insists that Roman said nothing to him; but rather leans over and kisses him. Baker is convinced that Roman did not kill his wife, and urges Mike to find Inga, who might know what truly happened. Baker tells Mike that Inga and Frankie started an antiques shop, and Mike realizes that Franklyn Madson is actually Frankie.
Mike breaks into Madson's shop, where he finds and questions Inga. She reveals that one day in 1948, she declared her love to Roman, but he rebuffed her. Frankie blamed Margaret for his mother's unhappiness and killed her with scissors, and stole her anklet. Roman was found 