Faces of Death (later re-released as The Original Faces of Death) is a 1978 American mondo horror film written and directed by John Alan Schwartz, credited under the pseudonyms "Conan Le Cilaire" and "Alan Black" respectively.
The film, shown in a documentary-like style, centers on pathologist Francis B. Gröss, played by actor Michael Carr. The narrator presents the viewer with a variety of footage showing different gruesome ways of dying from a variety of sources. Some of the most iconic scenes were faked for the film, while most of the film is pre-existing video footage of real deaths or the aftermath of death.
Faces of Death received generally negative reviews, but it was a huge success at the box office, reportedly grossing over $35 million worldwide. It gained a cult following and spawned several sequels, the first of which, Faces of Death II, was released in 1981.


== Plot ==
After performing an open heart surgery, pathologist Francis B. Gröss tells the viewer that he is interested with the transitional periods of life and death thanks to a recurring dream, while his experience as a surgeon has desensitized him to grotesque deaths. He has accrued various footage in an effort to better understand the many "faces of death".
Footage is played of various animal deaths, including a man killed by an alligator, which Gröss calls a "violent retaliation from a creature who has suffered continued abuse from mankind". Gröss next narrates over recordings of assassinations, stating that humans are the only species to kill for greed. Assassin François Jordan is interviewed, admitting that he kills solely for payment, not for political or social value. If there was a case he personally had thoughts on, he'd immediately but respectfully decline the missions. Gröss introduces another type of a killer, "the one who kills for no apparent reason". A gunfight ensues between a SWAT team and an armed murderer. During the gunfight, the SWAT team throws tear gas into the house of the murderer who is later shot, after which the team enters the killer's house to find his family stabbed to death; Gröss questions whether the man's actions were caused by society. As criminal Larry DeSilva is executed by electric chair, Gröss questions "if two wrongs make a right".
Gröss visits the Los Angeles County coroner's office, where Dr. Thomas Noguchi is embalming multiple corpses after their autopsies. One cadaver is a horrifically bloated drowned woman; the other a decapitated man whose skin is peeled off his skull for examination. Gröss asks Noguchi for his thoughts on his own embalming process after he dies, to which he replies: "life is purely a transitory state". One cadaver, Samuel Berkowitz, has his bodily fluids replaced with a liquid with a low freezing point and stored in a freezer to preserve his body for future sciences to revive him.
The next segment displays war and atrocities in history, including the Holocaust. Footage of German forces slaughtering enemy forces is shown, as they were becoming more desperate in the latter years of the war. The segment ends with footage of Nazis being obliterated in battle, and symbols of Nazism destroyed with Gröss saying that Hitler "lost control not only of his army, but of his mind". This transitions to a brief discussion on suicide with footage of a woman jumping from a building; Gröss admits this was "a face of death he wishes to never face again".
Footage of animals dying due to litter and pollution is shown, followed by sick children in impoverished villages. Nature is examined with footage of a search party finding a body in caves, a drowned man is recovered at a beach, and footage of a bear mauling irresponsible campers. More of the "horrific nature of man" is examined with footage of a venomous snake cult killing a handler, and a cannibalistic cult eating a cadaver stolen from a morgue before partaking in an orgy.
Footage of several more tragic accidents is shown, culminating in a scene of a person a