Dersu Uzala (Russian: Дерсу Узала, Japanese: デルス·ウザーラ, romanized: Derusu Uzāra; alternative U.S. title: Dersu Uzala: The Hunter) is a 1975 Soviet-Japanese biographical adventure drama film directed and co-written by Akira Kurosawa, his only non-Japanese-language film and his only 70mm film.
The film is based on the 1923 memoir Dersu Uzala (which was named after the native trapper) by Russian explorer Vladimir Arsenyev, about his exploration of the Sikhote-Alin region of the Russian Far East over the course of multiple expeditions in the early 20th century. Shot almost entirely outdoors in the Russian Far East wilderness, the film explores the theme of a native of the forests who is fully integrated into his environment, leading a style of life that will inevitably be destroyed by the advance of civilization. It is also about the growth of respect and deep friendship between two men of profoundly different backgrounds, and about the difficulty of coping with the loss of capability that comes with old age.
The film won the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film, the Golden Prize and the Prix FIPRESCI at the 9th Moscow International Film Festival, and other awards. It was also a box office hit, selling more than 21 million tickets in the Soviet Union and Europe in addition to grossing $1.2 million in the United States and Canada.


== Plot ==
In the early 1900s, Captain Arsenyev embarks on a topographic surveying expedition in the Shkotovo region of the Ussuri territory. During the journey, he encounters Dersu Uzala, a nomadic Goldi hunter, who impresses Arsenyev with his wilderness skills. Dersu agrees to become their guide, leading the expedition through the rugged frontier.
Dersu gains the respect of the group with his experience, instincts, keen observation, and compassion. He demonstrates his resourcefulness by repairing an abandoned hut and leaving essential provisions for future travelers. As the expedition progresses, Arsenyev and Dersu venture alone to explore Lake Khanka but get caught in a blizzard. Dersu saves Arsenyev's life by building a shelter and tending to him throughout the night.
The party faces numerous hardships, including fatigue and starvation, but Dersu's wisdom and skills help them survive. Eventually, they encounter a Nanai family who offers them food, warmth, and hospitality. When the expedition nears its end, Arsenyev invites Dersu to accompany him back to Khabarovsk. However, Dersu believes his place is in the forest and declines the offer, only asking for rifle cartridges.
Five years later, Arsenyev embarks on another expedition, hoping to reunite with Dersu. Eventually, they meet again, and Dersu agrees to guide the party once more. During their journey, Arsenyev and Dersu face a dangerous situation when they become stranded on a raft heading towards treacherous rapids. Dersu sacrifices himself by pushing Arsenyev to safety before the raft is destroyed. Arsenyev and the rest of the group rescue Dersu, and their bond grows stronger.
As time passes, Dersu senses they are being stalked by a Siberian tiger, an amu. He tries to persuade the tiger to leave peacefully but is forced to shoot at it. Distraught over injuring the sacred animal, Dersu becomes troubled and realizes he can no longer provide for himself as a hunter. He appeals to Arsenyev to take him home, but Dersu struggles to adapt to city life, feeling confined and out of place. Dersu tells the family that he can no longer stay in town and must go back to the mountains.  Arsenyev, though sad, realizes that Dersu needs to go, so he buys him a new high powered rifle so Dersu will have a better chance to survive. 
Eventually, news reaches Arsenyev that the body of an unidentified Goldi hunter has been found, and he is asked to identify it. Arsenyev recognizes the body as Dersu's and is devastated by the loss. The official in charge speculates that Dersu may have been killed for his rifle, the new one that Arsenyev bought for him. As Dersu 