The Distinguished Gentleman is a 1992 American political comedy film starring Eddie Murphy. The film was directed by Jonathan Lynn. In addition to Murphy, the film stars Lane Smith, Sheryl Lee Ralph, Joe Don Baker, Victoria Rowell, Grant Shaud, Kevin McCarthy, and Charles S. Dutton.
The film's plot is centered on politics, specifically what members of Congress and lobbyists do to get what they want in Washington, D.C. 


== Plot ==
Florida con man Thomas Jefferson Johnson crosses paths with Congressman Jefferson Davis "Jeff" Johnson at a party and becomes intrigued after overhearing just how wealthy members of Congress can become through corruption. After Congressman Johnson dies of a heart attack while having sex with his secretary, con man Johnson decides to run for Congress in the election to replace him to take advantage of money from lobbyists. Omitting his first name, and abbreviating his middle name, he calls himself "Jeff" Johnson. He then manages to get on the ballot by pitching a seniors organization, the Silver Foxes, to endorse him.
Once on the election ballot, he uses the dead Congressman's old campaign material and runs a low budget campaign that appeals to name recognition, figuring most people do not pay much attention and simply vote for the "name you know." He wins a slim victory and is off to Washington, a place where the "streets are lined with gold."
Initially, the lucrative donations and campaign contributions roll in, but as he learns the nature of the con game in Washington D.C., he starts to see how the greed and corruption makes it difficult to address issues such as campaign finance reform, environmental protection, and the possibility that electromagnetic fields from overhead power lines may be giving kids in a small town cancer, which the electric power company is concealing.
In trying to address these issues, Congressman Johnson finds himself double-crossed by the powerful chairman of the Committee on Power and Industry, Rep. Dick Dodge. Johnson decides to fight back the only way he knows how: with a con. Johnson succeeds and exposes Dodge as corrupt. As the film ends, it appears likely that Johnson will be thrown out of Congress on account of his previously unknown criminal record, but he defiantly declares, "I'm gonna run for President!" then breaking the fourth wall.


== Cast ==
Eddie Murphy as Thomas Jefferson Johnson
Lane Smith as Dick Dodge
Sheryl Lee Ralph as Loretta Hicks
Joe Don Baker as Olaf Andersen
Victoria Rowell as Celia Kirby
Grant Shaud as Arthur Reinhardt
Kevin McCarthy as Terry Corrigan
Charles S. Dutton as Elijah Hawkins
James Garner as Jeff Johnson
Victor Rivers as Armando
Chi McBride as Homer
Sonny Jim Gaines as Van Dyke
Noble Willingham as Zeke Bridges
Gary Frank as 'Iowa'
Daniel Benzali as 'Skeeter' Warburton
Cynthia Harris as Vera Johnson
Susan Forristal as Ellen Juba
Autumn Winters as Mickey Juba
Doris Grau as Hattie Rifkin
Frances Foster as Grandma Johnson
Sarah Carson as Kimberly Meadows
Brad Koepenick as Rafe Simon
Mel Owens as Bo Chandler


== Production ==
Eddie Murphy appeared in this Disney-produced film after a string of Paramount Pictures star vehicles. Bernard Weinraub, film reviewer for The New York Times, offered his opinion that Murphy wished to "move beyond the tepid material" he had been given by Paramount. Writer and producer Marty Kaplan said of Murphy's involvement "I feel like I've come close to winning the jackpot".
The film was shot at various locations in Washington, D.C.; Los Angeles; Harrisburg, Pennsylvania; Maryland, and Pasadena, California.
Director Jonathan Lynn later said: "It was the unlikely combination of Eddie Murphy and politics that drew me to it. The script was by a Washington insider, Marty Kaplan, who had been Vice President Mondale's speech writer. I loved working with Eddie, whom I had admired since 48 Hours and Trading Places. He was a superbly inventive comedy actor, and a delight to work with."


== Reception ==


=== Box office