A dog park is a park for dogs to exercise and play off-leash in a controlled environment under the supervision of their owners.


== Description ==
Dog parks have varying features, although they typically offer a 4-to-6-foot (1.2 to 1.8 m) fence, separate double-gated entry and exit points, adequate drainage, benches for humans, shade for hot days, parking close to the site, water, pooper-scooper to pick up and dispose of animal waste in covered trash cans, and regular maintenance and cleaning of the grounds. However, it is a norm to pick up after one's own dog. Dog parks may also offer wheel-chair access, a pond for swimming and a separate enclosure for small dogs.
Some dog parks have separate play spaces for large and small dogs. Others have one large area for dogs of all sizes. There is debate about this issue, as some argue that dogs should be segregated by size, while others feel that dogs of all sizes can and should socialize together.


== History ==

In 1979, Ohlone Dog Park, part of Ohlone Park in Berkeley, California opened. It is widely recognized as the world's first dog park. Similar to other parks in Berkeley at the time (such as People's Park), it was a community project on public land that was not officially sanctioned. However, it was officially sanctioned by the City of Berkeley government in 1983.
Dog parks began as a reaction to decreased public space, urban development, and leash laws. 
New establishment of dog parks in urban and suburban areas has seen significant increase since the 2000s.


== Instant dog parks ==

Communities re-purpose pools, ice rinks, hockey rinks and tennis courts in the off season as makeshift dog parks as an inexpensive, practical, and quick way to solve a problem. Municipalities allow zoning variance and/or tax incentive, and liability waiver for these.


== Dog park growth ==
Dog parks are the fastest-growing segment of city parks. There were 569 off-leash dog parks in the 100 largest U.S. cities in 2010, a 34 percent jump in 5 years, while overall parks increased only 3 percent. Portland, Oregon has the highest per capita in the US with 5.7 dog parks for every 100,000 residents. Calgary, AB has the highest per capita in North America, with 15.9 dog parks for every 100,000 residents. There are now more American households with dogs than with kids of 43 million and 38 million respectively. "It's a playground for people without kids."


== Children in dog parks ==
In Houston, Texas, some dog parks allow children inside if they are properly chaperoned by an adult, while others exclude children. The Houston Dog Park Association, a non-governmental club, said that adults should be cautious about bringing children inside a dog park and be aware that it is hard to keep a careful eye on both the dog and a child.


== Public dog parks ==

A public dog park is typically a fenced outdoor area where people and their dogs can play together. Similarly, a dog run is a smaller fenced area, created for the same use, that is often located within an existing park. Public dog parks are most commonly operated by your city or county's parks department and are frequently part of a park. As the names imply, these places offer dogs off-leash play areas where their owners can enjoy a park-like setting and the chance to socialize with other canines and their owners. Public dog parks are being established all over the country and offer a wealth of benefits to dogs, dog owners and the community as a whole. Unless they are well-lit, most public dog parks are open to the public from dawn until dusk. Some public dog parks have vaccination requirements but are not typically staffed or enforced unless there is some kind of incident which is reported to animal control.


== Private dog parks ==
A private dog park is an indoor or fenced outdoor area where people and their dogs can play together. Private dog parks are most commonly membership based and run as a for-profit business. Private dog parks can also be run