The Double Life of Veronique (French: La double vie de Véronique, Polish: Podwójne życie Weroniki) is a 1991 drama film directed by Krzysztof Kieślowski and starring Irène Jacob and Philippe Volter. Written by Kieślowski and Krzysztof Piesiewicz, the film explores the themes of identity, love, and human intuition through the characters of Weronika, a Polish choir soprano, and her double, Véronique, a French music teacher. Despite not knowing each other, the two women share a mysterious and emotional bond that transcends language and geography.
The Double Life of Veronique was Kieślowski's first film to be produced partly outside his native Poland. It won the Prize of the Ecumenical Jury and the FIPRESCI Prize at the 1991 Cannes Film Festival, as well as the Best Actress award for Jacob. Although selected as the Polish entry for the Best Foreign Language Film at the 64th Academy Awards, it was not accepted as a nominee.


== Plot ==
In 1968, a Polish girl glimpses the winter stars, while in France, another girl witnesses the first spring leaf. Fast forward to 1990, and we meet Weronika (Irène Jacob), a young Polish woman who is singing at an outdoor concert with her choir when a rainstorm interrupts their performance. Later that night, she makes love to her boyfriend, Antek (Jerzy Gudejko), before leaving for Kraków the next day to be with her sick aunt. She tells her father that she has been feeling a sense of not being alone in the world lately. Once in Kraków, Weronika joins a local choir and successfully auditions. One day, while walking in the city, she sees a French tourist who looks identical to her and watches as her doppelganger boards a bus and takes photographs. During the choir's next concert, Weronika suffers a cardiac arrest and dies.
On the same day in France, Véronique (also played by Jacob), who looks exactly like Weronika, is overcome with grief after having sex with her boyfriend and later tells her music teacher that she's quitting the choir. At school, Véronique attends a marionette performance with her class and then leads them in a musical piece by Van den Budenmayer, the same composer who wrote the music Weronika performed before her death. That night, Véronique sees the puppeteer at a traffic light motioning to her not to light the wrong end of her cigarette. Later, she hears a choir singing Van den Budenmayer's music on a mysterious phone call. Véronique visits her father and confesses to being in love with someone she doesn't know and feeling like she's lost someone from her life.
Back home, Véronique receives a package containing a shoelace, and a stranger shines a light on her using a mirror. She discovers that the puppeteer's identity is Alexandre Fabbri (Philippe Volter), a children's book author. Véronique reads his books and then receives a new package from her father with a cassette tape containing sounds that lead her to a café in Paris where Alexandre is waiting for her. He confesses to sending the packages to see if she would come to him, but Véronique is angry and checks into a nearby hotel. Alexandre follows her and asks for her forgiveness. They confess their feelings for each other and fall asleep together.
The next morning, Véronique tells Alexandre that she feels like she is "here and somewhere else at the same time," and believes that someone has been guiding her life. She shows him the contents of her handbag, including a proof sheet of photos from her recent trip to Poland. Alexandre thinks he sees a photo of Véronique, but she assures him that it is not her. Overwhelmed, Véronique breaks down in tears, and Alexandre comforts her. It becomes clear that Weronika's fate has influenced Véronique's decision to stop singing and avoid a similar fate.
Later, Véronique visits Alexandre at his apartment and sees him working on a pair of marionettes that resemble her. Alexandre explains that he needs a backup in case the original puppet gets damaged. He demonstrates how to operate the puppet 