"You Need to Calm Down" is a song by the American singer-songwriter Taylor Swift and the second single from her seventh studio album, Lover (2019). Republic Records released it for download and streaming on June 14, 2019. Written and produced by Swift and Joel Little, "You Need to Calm Down" is an upbeat electropop and synth-pop song that is set over steady synth beats and has a refrain of ascending echoes. In the lyrics, Swift addresses Internet trolls and homophobes and voices her support for the LGBTQ+ community.
Swift directed the music video for "You Need to Calm Down" with Drew Kirsch and executive-produced it with Todrick Hall. The video features an ensemble cast and many LGBT celebrity cameos. Some music critics praised the catchy production and pro-gay message of "You Need to Calm Down", but others found it confusing and cynical. Despite the mixed reaction, some media publications regard "You Need to Calm Down" as a gay anthem. The single reached number one in Scotland, number two in the United States, and the top five in Australia, Canada, Ireland, Malaysia, New Zealand, and the United Kingdom.
At the 2019 MTV Video Music Awards, the music video for "You Need to Calm Down" received nine nominations, winning Video of the Year and Video for Good. The song also received a nomination for Best Pop Solo Performance at the 62nd Grammy Awards. Swift included "You Need to Calm Down" in many live concerts and as part of the set list to her Eras Tour (2023–2024).


== Background and release ==
The first verse is about trolls and cancel culture. The second verse is about homophobes and the people picketing outside our concerts. The third verse is about successful women being pitted against each other.

On April 26, 2019, the title of the song was teased in the intro for the music video for "Me!" when Brendon Urie shouted the title in French. Later, it was revealed an "old-timey, 1940s-sounding instrumental version" of the song played in the background in the scene. On June 13, 2019, Swift announced on a livestream on Instagram that her upcoming album's second single, entitled "You Need to Calm Down", was to be released at midnight EDT on June 14 (04:00 UTC). It is an electropop and synth-pop song. It tackles homophobia and expresses support for the LGBT community.
A lyric video for the song was released together with the song on YouTube. The video contained several easter eggs, including changing the word "glad" to GLAAD, and highlighting "EA" letters as a reference to the Equality Act. The references followed Swift's donation to GLAAD in support of Pride Month, and Swift's Change.org petition for the United States Senate to pass the Equality Act. The petition has attracted more than 500,000 signatures, including from Democrats such as Cory Booker, Elizabeth Warren, Beto O'Rourke, and Kirsten Gillibrand. Following the release of the song, GLAAD reported an "influx" of donations in the amount of $13, a reference to Swift's favorite number. A vertical video premiered exclusively on Spotify on June 24, 2019.
A remix of the song by British electronic music band Clean Bandit was released on August 20, 2019.


== Critical reception ==
Music critics were divided with "You Need to Calm Down". Dan Stubbs from NME called the song "withering in its measured response", concluding it was "an infectious, bite-size pop package". Gwen Ihnat of The A.V. Club wrote that the song "clearly and refreshingly combats homophobia and anti-gay bias". Maeve McDermott and Joshua Bote, writing for USA Today, considered the song "an improvement" over the previous single "Me!", and "a more promising example of what fans can expect" from the album. Mikael Wood of the Los Angeles Times also concurred that the song was "a big creative improvement" over "Me!", while commenting the "explicit pro-gay message is certainly welcome, but it also feels just the slightest bit cynical". Time's Raisa Bruner wrote that the song is "bright, bubbly and unabashedly vying for e