Driving Miss Daisy is a 1989 American comedy-drama film directed by Bruce Beresford and written by Alfred Uhry, based on his 1987 play of the same name. The film stars Jessica Tandy, Morgan Freeman, and Dan Aykroyd. Freeman reprised his role from the original Off-Broadway production.
The story defines Daisy and her point of view through a network of relationships and emotions by focusing on her home life, synagogue, friends, family, fears, and concerns over a twenty-five-year period.
Driving Miss Daisy was a critical and commercial success upon its release and at the 62nd Academy Awards received nine nominations, and won four: Best Picture, Best Actress (for Tandy), Best Makeup, and Best Adapted Screenplay. As of 2024, it is the most recent PG-rated film to have won Best Picture.


== Plot ==
In 1948, Daisy Werthan, or Miss Daisy, a 72-year-old wealthy, Jewish, widowed, retired schoolteacher, lives alone in Atlanta, Georgia, except for a black housekeeper, Idella. When Miss Daisy drives her 1946 Chrysler Windsor into her neighbor's yard, her 40-year-old son, Boolie, buys her a Hudson Commodore and hires 60-year-old Hoke Colburn, a black chauffeur. Boolie tells Hoke that Miss Daisy may not appreciate his efforts, but she cannot fire him, because Boolie is his employer. At first, Miss Daisy refuses to let anyone drive her, but Hoke's patience pays off, and she reluctantly accepts the first two trips. Then she tries to get Boolie to fire Hoke after discovering a can of salmon missing from her pantry. Unprompted and before she is able to confront him, Hoke admits to eating the salmon and offers her a replacement can.
As Miss Daisy and Hoke spend time together, she comes to  appreciate his many skills.  She teaches him to read for the first time using her teaching skills and resources. After Idella dies in the spring of 1963, rather than hire a new housekeeper, Miss Daisy decides to care for her own house and have Hoke do the cooking and the driving. Meanwhile, Hoke buys the cars in which  he drives Miss Daisy, after they are traded in for newer models, and he negotiates a higher salary with Boolie.
The film explores racism against African Americans and antisemitism in the South. After her synagogue is bombed, Miss Daisy realizes that she is also a victim of prejudice. American society is undergoing radical changes, and Miss Daisy attends a dinner at which Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. gives a speech.
Boolie declines when she invites him to the dinner, suggesting that Miss Daisy invite Hoke. She waits until the last moment, asking Hoke  to be her guest during the car ride to the event. She attends the dinner alone while  Hoke, who is insulted by the manner of the invitation, listens to the speech on the car radio, outside.
One morning in 1971, Hoke arrives at the house  to find Miss Daisy agitated and showing signs of dementia: She believes that she is a young teacher again. Hoke calms her down. In that conversation, she calls Hoke her "best friend." Boolie arranges for Miss Daisy to enter a retirement home. 
In 1973, Hoke, now 85 and rapidly losing his eyesight, retires. Boolie, now 65, drives Hoke to the retirement home to visit Miss Daisy, now 97. The two catch up, and Hoke gently feeds her Thanksgiving pie. The final scene is an image of the black Cadillac driving on a road.


== Cast ==


== Reception ==


=== Box office ===
Driving Miss Daisy was given a limited release on December 15, 1989, earning $73,745 in three theaters. The film was given a wide release on January 26, 1990, earning $5,705,721 over its opening weekend in 895 theaters, becoming the number one film in the United States. It remained at number 1 the following week but was knocked off the top spot in its third weekend of wide release by Hard to Kill. It returned to number one the next weekend and remained there for a fourth week.  The film ultimately grossed $106,593,296 in North America, and $39,200,000 in other territories, for a worldwide total of $145,793,29