Dumb and Dumber To is a 2014 American buddy comedy film co-written and directed by the Farrelly brothers. It is the third film in the Dumb and Dumber franchise and a sequel to the 1994 film Dumb and Dumber. The film stars Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels reprising their roles 20 years after the events of the first film, and also features Rob Riggle (in a dual role), Laurie Holden, Rachel Melvin, and Kathleen Turner. The film tells the story of Lloyd Christmas and Harry Dunne (played by Carrey and Daniels, respectively), two dimwitted adults who set out on a cross-country road trip to locate Harry's daughter, who has been adopted.
First announced in October 2011, Dumb and Dumber To underwent a turbulent pre-production phase which included, at one point, Carrey withdrawing from the project, and Warner Bros. Pictures refusing to distribute the film. The project was eventually taken on in 2013 by Red Granite Pictures and the film was shot later that year. Released on November 14, 2014, by Universal Pictures, the film received negative reviews from critics. It grossed $36.1 million on its opening weekend and over $169 million worldwide.
On June 15, 2017, the United States Department of Justice charged that money used to produce the film was stolen from a Malaysian government investment fund. Red Granite Pictures denied knowingly accepting stolen money. Prosecutors also filed a Forfeiture Complaint in federal court to seize the rights of ownership to Dumb and Dumber To as well as the rights to the 2015 film Daddy's Home. Red Granite later made a $60 million settlement.


== Plot ==
For twenty years a catatonic Lloyd Christmas has been committed to a mental institution ever since he discovered Mary Swanson was already married at the end of the first film. During a visit, Lloyd's best friend Harry Dunne pleads with him to snap out of it, then discovers that Lloyd has pranked him by faking his condition the entire time.
Harry reveals he needs a kidney transplant, and learns he cannot get one from his parents because he was adopted as a baby. Harry's dad gives him his mail that has been piling up since he moved out. It includes a 1991 postcard from ex-girlfriend Fraida Felcher, stating she is pregnant and needs Harry to call. Upon contacting her, Fraida reveals that she had a daughter named Fanny, who she gave up for adoption. She once wrote Fanny a letter, only for it to be returned and instructed to never contact her again.
Hoping Fanny can provide a kidney, Lloyd and Harry drive to Oxford, Maryland, where she now lives. Dr. Bernard Pinchelow and his wife Adele are Fanny's adoptive parents. Fanny, who has taken the name Penny, is going to a KEN Convention in El Paso, Texas to give a speech on her father's life work. Bernard had wanted Penny to deliver a package to one of the convention heads but, being dim-witted, she ends up forgetting the package and her cellphone.
Adele is secretly trying to poison Bernard to have his fortune, with the help of her secret lover, family housekeeper Travis Lippincott. Harry and Lloyd arrive to inform the Pinchelows of their situation. Bernard realizes Penny forgot the package, which he says contains an invention worth billions. Adele suggests that Harry and Lloyd deliver the package to Penny. Travis accompanies them, hoping to get the box for himself and Adele. He becomes increasingly annoyed with the duo, and attempts to kill them after they pull a near death-causing prank on him, although he ends up dying in a train collision. Adele hears of the death from Travis's twin brother Captain Lippincott, a former military man who agrees to help her kill Harry and Lloyd.
The duo arrives at the convention, where Harry impersonates Bernard. They are invited to a seminar, but get into an argument when Harry discovers that Lloyd has developed a romantic attraction to Penny, having seen her photo earlier. Lloyd is escorted out of the convention due to not being on the attendance list. He gets a call from Penny and in