"Die Young" is a song by American singer and songwriter Kesha. It was released on September 25, 2012, as the lead single from her second studio album, Warrior (2012). Kesha co-wrote the song with its producers, Dr. Luke, Benny Blanco, and Cirkut, with additional writing from Nate Ruess, the lead singer of Fun. Ruess wrote the words for the chorus, but Kesha wrote the lyrics after traveling around the world and embarking on a spiritual journey.
"Die Young" charted in multiple countries, debuting at 13 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart in the United States. In its third week, "Die Young" broke into the Hot 100's top-ten, making it Kesha's seventh consecutive top-ten hit as a lead artist since her debut on the chart in 2009 with "Tik Tok" and ninth top-ten hit overall including her collaborations with 3OH!3, Britney Spears, and Nicki Minaj. It eventually peaked at number two, continuing Kesha's string of top-ten singles. The song has also reached the top ten in multiple countries worldwide, including most of the English-speaking world and has received a Platinum certification in five countries.
In December 2012, the song was removed from some radio stations in the wake of the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting, rendering the title and chorus inappropriate for airplay. Radio heads stated that closer inspection of the song's content shows it has "nothing to do with what happened".


== Background and composition ==

Produced primarily by Dr. Luke and Benny Blanco, Kesha worked with the lead singer of fun., Nate Ruess, to write "Die Young". Co-producer Blanco called the song "old hippie rock." The song was written in 2011, after Kesha traveled the world. Before working on her second studio album, she went on a spiritual journey. Recalling experiences of feeding baby lions and swimming with great white sharks, Kesha said, "I got hypnotized, and I just really wanted this record to be really positive, really raw, really vulnerable and about the magic of life." She intends for the song to show her vulnerable side, saying, "I have a lot of growing and evolving to do. I'm definitely not a one-trick pony and I think people are starting to see that more and more."
About the song, she told Carson Daly on 97.1 AMP Radio:

"It's kind of an anthem. It's a celebration song, which I'm obviously known for writing those, but this one, the concept of it was to live each and every single day like it's your last and to always remain having a youthful spirit no matter how old I get...I can sing like a motherf***er! You're going to hear that because I'm also doing this acoustic EP for my fans. Some of the old songs and the new songs."
The song employs Kesha's trademark electropop sounds. "Die Young" spreads acoustic guitar strums, in the progression of C#m-B-E-A in the key of C-sharp minor with a moderate tempo of 128 beats per minute, over an uptempo dance beat, while Kesha belts her half-rapped, half-sung vocals on the verses, where she says, "I hear your heart beat to the beat of the drums." Over throbbing percussion, she continues: "Oh what a shame that you came here with someone / So while you're here in my arms / Let's make the most of the night like we're gonna die young." "Die Young" features synth riffs in the new wave style, reminiscent of the Cars and other music in the 1980s. Towards the end of the song, a choir of backing vocals chimes the chorus over a glam rock drum beat.


== Critical reception ==

Seventeen called it "classic Ke$ha", while Robbie Daw of Idolator said, "[I'm] getting a 'if you’ve heard one Ke$ha song, you’ve heard 'em all' vibe, which is unfortunate." In an interview with Rolling Stone, she said she intended to craft songs in the 1970s "cock rock" genre, but Daw felt that her lackluster vocal delivery neither departed from her previous sound nor lived up to the hype. Rolling Stone said that "Die Young" is "the Ke$ha we know and love," and that "it sounds sorta exactly like Taio Cruz". August Brown of the Los Angeles Time