Women's parking spaces are specially designated and identified parking spaces in parking garages and parking lots to be used by women. They are usually much larger than normal parking spots to reduce accidents and near exits to increase the safety of women, to facilitate parking, or to facilitate walking to shopping or employment destinations.
To improve women's safety, some companies have improved lighting in their garage, installed surveillance systems, and have reserved parking spots closer to entrances for female-only parking. Some parking spots are painted bright pink to distinguish them as female only, and may also have a "female only" sign. Some women's parking facilities are also widened to make maneuvering in and out with children easier.


== History ==
Women's parking spaces were originally introduced in 1990 in Germany to improve women's safety and reduce the risk of sexual assault. This was formulated because women felt at risk in parking garages which were often dark and deserted. After Germany, places like South Korea and China also adopted this policy. It soon became a law in some regions of Germany that at least 30% of parking spots must be reserved for women.
A study by the US Bureau of Justice Statistics showed that 7.3% of violent crimes occurred in parking garages.


== By country ==


=== Germany ===
In contrast to disabled parking spaces, women's parking spaces are not designated in the German road traffic code (Straßenverkehrsordnung) and are therefore only legally binding in private parking areas. However, as landlord, the operator of the parking facility can insist that these spaces be used only by women as long as it is not claimed that the parking facility falls under the rules of the federal road traffic code.
In some German states, women's parking spaces are provided for under garage regulations. For example, the garage regulations of North Rhine-Westphalia and Schleswig-Holstein state that women's parking places:

must be marked as such
should be near the facility entrance
must be monitored by a security guard or by video surveillance
must be near an installed burglar alarm
In the garage regulation of Baden-Württemberg, at least 10% of all spaces in large garages must be reserved for women. The garage regulation of Brandenburg stipulates that at least 30% of spaces must be for women.
The German Federal Anti-Discrimination Agency stated on their website that the establishment of women's parking spaces does not violate the General Equal Treatment Act (Allgemeines Gleichbehandlungsgesetz), because women are more likely than men to be victims of sexual abuse.
According to the Hessian State Office of Criminal Investigation, the furnishing of women's parking spaces is an ideal means of raising women's feelings of safety. However, according to federal criminal statistics published by the German police, molestation and attacks on women occur no more often in parking garages than in other places. In Hesse, in 2003, only one of 1000 crimes in parking garages was sexual in nature.

A small town in southern Germany, Triberg introduced the antonym, the globally first men's parking spaces in 2012 and caused a major media hype. The two Triberg slots are based on a technical peculiarity, since the slots in question are much more difficult to maneuver into than normal spaces. The mayor of Triberg even explained that women would have difficulty parking there since the spaces require male drivers to back in diagonally without crashing into walls and a pillar. In fact, the mayor's exact words were, "But many also cannot park, like my secretary. Five times she tried and no success." On a final note, to add a comical touch, these men-only parking spaces were even marked with "Mars" symbols.


==== Background ====
According to Ruth Becker's research about risk zones in town planning, neither men's nor women's risk assessments are in line with actual dangers, and the actual zone of risk is different for each gender. Wom