The Edge of Seventeen is a 2016 American coming-of-age comedy-drama film written and directed by Kelly Fremon Craig, in her directorial debut. The film stars Hailee Steinfeld, Woody Harrelson, Kyra Sedgwick, and Haley Lu Richardson.
The film premiered at the 2016 Toronto International Film Festival on September 16, 2016, and was theatrically released on November 18, 2016, by STXfilms.
It received positive reviews, with Steinfeld's performance being critically acclaimed, and grossed over $19.4 million against a budget of $9 million.


== Plot ==
Seventeen-year-old Nadine Franklin has tempestuous relationships with her popular older brother Darian and her image-conscious mother Mona, but was close to her father Tom, who died of a heart attack when Nadine was thirteen, leaving her best friend Krista the only person keeping her buoyed.
Mona travels to the Oregon Coast to meet a boyfriend, and in her absence, Nadine and Krista get extremely drunk.  Darian throws a pool party at the house, and after throwing up, Nadine falls asleep while Krista talks to Darian. The next morning Nadine finds Krista with Darian in bed, straining their friendship. The next day at school, Krista insists Nadine join her at a house party to which Darian has invited her. Upon arrival, Darian introduces Krista to other students, leaving Nadine on her own. After failed attempts at mingling, Nadine sits outside with another partygoer, who remarks how inferior Nadine seems compared to her brother, and Nadine leaves the party. 
Nadine turns to her classmate Erwin Kim, who has a crush on her, though she is attracted to older student Nick Mossman and makes inept attempts to attract him. She invites Erwin to an amusement park, but she rejects his attempt to kiss her. At the end of the night Nadine tells him he is a great guy and they become friends.
At school, Krista confronts Nadine for ignoring her, and Nadine says Darian does not care about Krista and will soon drop her. Krista retorts that Darian has asked her to be his girlfriend and to prom, which is months away. Insecure, Nadine says Krista must chose between her or Darian. When she refuses to do so, Nadine ends their friendship.
For support at school, Nadine turns to world-weary teacher Mr. Bruner, who says she is his favorite student to cheer her up. Nadine goes swimming in Erwin's pool and finds his house is luxurious and his family is wealthy. She learns Erwin is a talented animation filmmaker, and accepts his invitation to their school's short-film festival.
Mona has been giving Nadine a ride to school since her falling out with Krista. One day, Nadine refuses to get out of the car when she sees Krista arriving at school at the same time, which leads to Mona bringing Nadine to work with her. There, they argue about her father, and Nadine steals Mona's car. She drives to a playground, writes a sexually explicit text to Nick and accidentally sends it.
Nadine drives to school and flippantly tells Mr. Bruner she is going to kill herself, and he tries to reassure her. Nick replies asking her to hang out. Mona calls Darian while he is with Krista and some friends, telling him that Nadine is missing. Darian and Krista leave to find her. Nick, having taken Nadine's explicit text seriously, attempts to have sex with her in his car. Rejecting him, Nadine runs away and calls Mr. Bruner, who takes her back to his house where they wait for Darian to arrive. Nadine meets Mr. Bruner's wife and child there. Darian tells Nadine he has suffered from the pressures of taking their father's place, saying he feels trapped and did not apply to distant colleges because of their mother being so dependent on him. The only person who makes him happy is Krista, but he dislikes the fact that it destroys Nadine for him to be with Krista. Darian then asks Mr. Bruner to give Nadine a ride home. Back at their house, Nadine confesses her own feelings of self-hatred and envy to Darian. They hug, ending their feud.
As Nadine leaves for t