The Effect of Gamma Rays on Man-in-the-Moon Marigolds is a play written by Paul Zindel, a playwright and science teacher. Zindel received the 1971 Pulitzer Prize for Drama and a New York Drama Critics' Circle Award for the work.
The play centers around a science project for the fair and the family life of the protagonist. It was performed throughout the 20th century and made into a film.


== Productions ==
The play's world premiere happened in the 1964/1965 season at the Alley Theatre in Houston.
The play premiered Off-Broadway at the Mercer Arts Center on April 7, 1970, and closed on May 14, 1972, after 819 performances. Directed by Melvin Bernhardt, the cast featured Swoosie Kurtz (Janice Vickery), Amy Levitt (Ruth), Judith Lowry (Nanny), Pamela Payton-Wright (Tillie), and Sada Thompson (Beatrice).
A touring production produced by Theatre Now and directed by Leland Ball, starring Teresa Wright (Beatrice), Alexandra Stoddart (Tillie), Robin Nolan (Ruth), Helen Ross (Nanny), and Carol Potter (Janice Vickery), toured from October 13, 1972, until February 8, 1973.
The play was presented on Broadway at the Biltmore Theatre, from March 9, 1978 (previews) to March 26, 1978. Directed by A. J. Antoon, the cast included Shelley Winters (Beatrice), Carol Kane (Tillie), Lolly Boroff (Janice Vickery), Isabella Hoopes (Nanny), and Lori Shelle (Ruth).
The Oregon Shakespeare Festival also produced the play in 1978 at its intimate Black Swan theater, directed by William Glover.


== Plot ==
The play revolves around a dysfunctional family consisting of single mother Beatrice and her two daughters, Ruth and Tillie, who try to cope with their abysmal status in life. The play is a lyrical drama, reminiscent of Tennessee Williams' style.
Shy Matilda Hunsdorfer, nicknamed Tillie, prepares an experiment involving marigolds raised from seeds exposed to radioactivity for her science fair. She is, however, constantly thwarted by her mother Beatrice, who is self-centered and abusive, and by her extroverted and unstable sister Ruth, who submits to her mother's will. Over the course of the play, Beatrice constantly tries to stamp out any opportunities Tillie has of succeeding, due to her own lack of success in life. As the play progresses, the paths of the three characters diverge: Ruth has a nervous collapse while attempting to stand up to Beatrice, who, driven to the verge of insanity by her deep-seated enmity, impulsively kills the girls' pet rabbit Peter and wallows in her own perceived insignificance. Tillie meanwhile (much like her project's deformed yet beautiful, hardy marigolds) wins the science fair through sheer perseverance.


== Characters ==
Matilda "Tillie" Hunsdorfer
The main protagonist of the play. A quiet and introverted character who is teased at school. She copes with her life by immersing herself in science, hoping to reach a philosophical epiphany. Her untiring quest for her individuality stands in open defiance of her mother's wish for total control over the family. Consequently, she receives the brunt of the abuse. Tillie also owns a rabbit named Peter, given to her by her science teacher, Mr. Goodman.
Ruth Hunsdorfer
Tillie's older sister. A brash but confused adolescent, she looks to others for advice, but often gains this insight from Beatrice, who she favors in several ways. On many occasions, she paints Tillie as the crazy one, and suffers from epilepsy and night terrors. She also takes a liking to Tillie's pet rabbit, to the point where she blackmails Tillie for possession of the rabbit by threatening to tell their mother what the adults at the school call her—"Betty the Loon."
Beatrice Hunsdorfer
Tillie's and Ruth's mother. A single mother whose life has gone awry, she copes with it through self-loathing, cynicism, and drug abuse, and by verbally (and at times physically) abusing her two daughters, which is not shown in the film.  As the play's main antagonist, Beatrice is mainly narcissistic, domineering, and lethally sh