The Englishman who Went up a Hill but Came down a Mountain (novel) is a 1995 novel by Christopher Monger.
The book, narrated by the author, is claimed to be based on a story heard by him from his grandfather about the real village of Taff's Well, in the old county of Glamorgan, and its neighbouring Garth Hill.
It was turned into a romantic comedy film, directed by the author, film of the same name but with a different epilogue.


== Plot ==
On a Sunday in 1917, during World War I, two English cartographers from the Ordnance Survey, the pompous George Garrad and his junior, Reginald Anson, arrive at the fictional Welsh village of Ffynnon Garw. Their job is to re-measure certain Welsh mountains, and their first task is to measure Ffynnon Garw.
Garrard is the senior, many years retired from the army. He claims to have surveyed many locations around the British Empire, although he is fundamentally lazy and a drunk. Anson is a younger and much-decorated army officer, invalided out with severe shellshock from fighting in France, and is just starting to enjoy life again.
Most of the men of the village are fighting in France, and those who are not work in the coalmine. The two men put up at the pub ‘Y Ffynnon’ owned by Morgan Morgan, known as Morgan the Goat, the only villager who doesn't attend chapel. Within a short time, every villager is aware of the arrival of the map makers. They are extremely proud of ‘their’ mountain, which they claim to be ‘the first mountain in Wales’. Garrard tells them that only if the mountain is 1000 feet high or higher, will it appear on official maps.
Two farmers, identical brothers known as Thomas Twp and Thomas Twp Too, are particularly interested in the methods of measurement. (Twp is a Welsh word meaning stupid or ignorant). Garrard, despite his assumed air of authority, doesn't really understand the technicalities of the measuring instruments he uses, and delegates Anson to explain. Anson tries to describe in simple words what methods they will use to measure the height; starting with pedometers and inclinometers. Then they will use highly sensitive barometers to measure air pressure, but these only work when the pressure is stable. Finally, and most accurately, they will use a transit to compare the mountain's height with other hills of known height.
The villagers take bets on the final height, but are outraged when Garrard concludes from the first, approximate, measurement, that it is only 984 feet. They are despondent at having ‘lost’ their mountain.
The villagers, aided and abetted by Morgan the Goat, so-called because of the many children he has fathered in the village, and their fiery spiritual leader Reverend Robert Jones, grasp its symbolism in restoring the community's war-damaged self-esteem, and conspire to delay the cartographers' departure so that the measurement can be done again. At a meeting, nominally chaired by Jones the JP, but led by Rev. Jones, the villagers discuss what to do. They consider a petition, but then Morgan proposes that they physically increase the height by adding soil. Rev Jones finds himself, for the first time in his life, in agreement with Morgan, but the meeting has reached a stalemate. Johnny Shellshocked, a badly affected local returned from France, finds the courage to stand and tell the meeting how the army moved earth and built hills in France. He concludes that ‘it’s possible – it’s just hard work.’
Garrard and Anson have a tight schedule and have orders from London to leave in the morning, but the villagers try to delay them. Williams the Petroleum (who doesn't actually understand anything about motorcar engines) disables their car by breaking a vital part, which can only be replaced by a new part fetched from Cardiff. Morgan enlists his current paramour Betty From Cardiff (also known as Miss Elizabeth) to make up to Anson, which she does, initially with great reluctance. Tommy Twostroke, a miner who owns a motorbike, is enlisted to call out friends a