Entrapment is a 1999 caper film directed by Jon Amiel and written by Ronald Bass. It stars Sean Connery and Catherine Zeta-Jones and includes Will Patton, Ving Rhames and Maury Chaykin. The film focuses on the relationship between investigator Virginia "Gin" Baker and professional thief Robert "Mac" MacDougal as they attempt a heist at the turn of the New Millennium. Simon West and Antoine Fuqua were both in talks to direct before Amiel was hired. The film was released theatrically in the United States on 30 April 1999 and in the United Kingdom on 2 July 1999.


== Plot ==
Virginia "Gin" Baker is an investigator for Waverly Insurance. When a priceless Rembrandt painting is stolen from an office building in New York one night, Gin pursues Robert "Mac" MacDougal as a suspect, believing him to be a longtime professional thief specializing in international art. Mac quickly deduces that Gin is investigating him and confronts her. She claims that she is also a thief and proposes she help him steal a priceless Chinese mask from the well-guarded Bedford Palace.
Mac agrees and brings Gin to his isolated castle on a Scottish island to plan and train for the heist. Aaron Thibadeaux, apparently the only ally that Mac trusts, arrives with supplies for the theft. Mac, unsure of Gin's motives, keeps her romantic advances at bay and they clash repeatedly as they train and prepare.
While Mac is busy making final preparations, Gin contacts her boss, Hector Cruz, from a payphone and gives him an update, unaware that Mac has the entire island bugged and he is listening.
Mac and Gin break into Bedford Palace and Gin carefully maneuvers around security lasers, having carefully practiced how to do so for weeks. She steals the mask and escapes with Mac, but before they can get away he interrogates her while threatening to drown her if she does not admit that she works for Waverly Insurance and is planning to entrap him.
Gin convinces Mac that she's a thief, her insurance agency job is the real cover and that she has planned an even bigger heist in Kuala Lumpur worth over $1 billion. Mac agrees to go to Malaysia with Gin, where she lays out her plan to steal $8 billion from International Clearance Bank in the North Tower of the Petronas Towers on New Year's Eve, taking advantage of an electronic security gap she's created.
In Kuala Lumpur, Gin is confronted by Cruz for disappearing on him, and she convinces him that Mac is planning the bank heist and her investigation is ongoing. His romantic feelings for Gin growing, Mac attempts to call off the heist, but Gin persuades him to continue.
Despite the presence of Cruz and other security watching the building, the theft takes place in the final seconds of the new 2000 millennium countdown, but Gin pulls the plug on her laptop prematurely and sets off alarms. She and Mac narrowly escape the computer vault and are forced to walk along the lights hung from the bottom of the bridge linking the two towers. Gin and Mac make their way to a ventilation shaft, where Mac forces Gin to escape without him, promising to meet her the next morning at Pudu train station.
Gin waits for Mac and initially fears he has been caught or killed, but he soon appears with Thibadeaux, who arrests Gin. Mac admits to Gin that she had always been the target, and he has been cooperating with the FBI for some time to avoid incarceration, but that Cruz has only just been told the truth.
As a train arrives at the station, Mac slips Gin a gun and documents to help her escape the country. She pretends to hold Mac hostage at gunpoint, threatening to shoot him if the agents follow her. She boards a train and the FBI heads to the next station, while Mac remains behind. Gin reappears, explaining she jumped trains mid-station, and is happily reunited with Mac, proposing they attempt a diamond heist together.


== Cast ==
Sean Connery as Robert "Mac" MacDougal
Catherine Zeta-Jones as Virginia "Gin" Baker
Will Patton as Hector Cruz
Ving Rhames as