Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex* (*But Were Afraid to Ask) is a 1972 American sex comedy anthology film directed by Woody Allen. It consists of a series of short sequences loosely inspired by David Reuben's 1969 book of the same name.
The film was an early success for Woody Allen, grossing over $18 million in North America alone against a $2 million budget, making it the 10th highest-grossing film of 1972.


== Film structure ==
The credits at the start and close of the film are played over a backdrop of a large mass of white rabbits, to the tune of "Let's Misbehave" by Cole Porter.
The film consists of seven vignettes, as follows:

Do Aphrodisiacs Work?A court jester gives a love potion to the Queen but is foiled by her chastity belt. There are references to Shakespeare's Hamlet throughout.
What Is Sodomy?Dr. Ross falls in love with the partner of an Armenian patient, a sheep.
Why Do Some Women Have Trouble Reaching an Orgasm?Allen's homage to Italian film-making in general and Casanova 70, Michelangelo Antonioni, and Federico Fellini in particular, about Gina, a woman who can only reach orgasm in public.
Are Transvestites Homosexuals?Sam Musgrave, a middle-aged married man, experiments with women's clothes.
What Are Sex Perverts?A parody of the television game show What's My Line? called What's My Perversion?, filmed in B&W kinescope-style and hosted by Jack Barry.  The four panelists who attempt to guess the contestant's perversion are Regis Philbin, Robert Q. Lewis, Pamela Mason, and Toni Holt.  After they fail to guess that the contestant's perversion is "Likes to expose himself on subways," a second segment of the show is presented, in which a selected viewer (in this case a rabbi) gets to act out his bondage and humiliation fantasy while his wife eats pork.
Are the Findings of Doctors and Clinics Who Do Sexual Research and Experiments Accurate?Victor, a sex researcher, and Helen Lacey, a journalist, visit a Dr. Bernardo, a researcher who formerly worked with Masters and Johnson but now has his own laboratory complete with a lab assistant named Igor.  After they see a series of bizarre sexual experiments underway at the lab and realize that Bernardo is insane, they escape before Helen becomes the subject of another of his experiments.  The segment culminates with a scene in which the countryside is terrorized by a giant runaway breast created by the researcher.  The first part of this segment is a parody of Ed Wood's Bride of the Monster (1955), and especially, The Unearthly (1957), which also stars John Carradine. The second part parodies many of the "Giant" monster movies of the 1950s.
What Happens During Ejaculation?The NASA-like mission control center in a man's brain is seen, as he gets involved in a sexual clinch with an NYU graduate (knowledge that she is a graduate of NYU assures coital success). As he achieves orgasm, the soldier-like, white-uniformed sperm are dispatched paratrooper-style into the great unknown.


== Cast ==
Woody Allen as Victor / Fabrizio / The Fool / Sperm
John Carradine as Dr. Bernardo
Lou Jacobi as Sam Musgrave
Louise Lasser as Gina
Anthony Quayle as The King
Tony Randall as The Operator
Lynn Redgrave as The Queen
Burt Reynolds as Sperm Switchboard Chief
Gene Wilder as Dr. Ross
Jack Barry as Himself
Elaine Giftos as Mrs. Ross
Toni Holt as Herself
Robert Q. Lewis as Himself
Heather MacRae as Helen Lacey
Pamela Mason as Herself
Sidney Miller as George
Regis Philbin as Himself
Titos Vandis as Stavros Milos
Stanley Adams as Stomach Operator
Oscar Beregi as Brain Control
Alan Caillou The Fool's Father
Don Chuy as Football Player
Dort Clark as Sheriff
Erin Fleming as The Girl
Geoffrey Holder as Sorcerer
Baruch Lumet as The Rabbi
Tom Mack as Football Player
Jay Robinson as The Priest
Ref Sanchez as Igor
Robert Walden as Sperm
Norman Alden as Switchboard


== Soundtrack ==
"Let's Misbehave" (1927) - Music and Lyrics by Cole Porter - Played by Irving Aaronson and his Commanders
"Batt