The first season of the American television series The Gifted is based on Marvel Comics' X-Men properties, and follows ordinary parents who take their family on the run after they discover their children's mutant abilities. The season is connected to the X-Men film series, set in an alternate timeline where the X-Men have disappeared. It was produced by 20th Century Fox Television in association with Marvel Television, with Matt Nix serving as showrunner.
Stephen Moyer and Amy Acker star as the parents, alongside Sean Teale, Natalie Alyn Lind, Percy Hynes White, Coby Bell, Jamie Chung, Blair Redford, and Emma Dumont. The show was ordered to series in May 2017, after a pilot was filmed in Dallas, Texas. Production on the rest of the season moved to Atlanta, Georgia, where the focus was on creating a grounded take on refugees. The season also deals with ideas of discrimination, and how the actions of some can become more extreme than others.
The season aired from October 2, 2017, to January 15, 2018, over 13 episodes. It received mostly positive reviews from critics, particularly for its social commentary and cast. The Gifted was renewed for a second season on January 4, 2018.


== Episodes ==


== Cast and characters ==


== Production ==


=== Development ===
Fox made a put pilot commitment in July 2016 for an X-Men based series, written by Matt Nix. His initial pitch for the series, "Running on Empty with mutants", was met with applause by executives. It was criticized for including too much story in the pilot, but Nix moved some of these ideas to later episodes. By January 2017, Nix hoped to see the season run for 12 or 13 episodes, rather than the traditional 22, while Fox chairman and CEO Gary Newman was expecting a final draft of the pilot script and planned to give a pilot pickup within a few weeks of that; Fox officially ordered the series to pilot at the end of the month, and to series, as The Gifted, in May. In August, Len Wiseman joined as a director and executive producer for the season, which consists of 13 episodes.


=== Writing ===
The series is not a procedural, and does not have a "save the mutant of the week" formula, instead following the ongoing story of the mutant underground as they both try to save other mutants and fight to protect themselves. Each episode does still have a beginning, middle, and end, including a flashback at the start of each episode focused on a particular character's history. Where the films and comics generally tell stories starting with the X-Men encountering "the world outside", Nix wanted to approach the story from the perspective of outsiders who are learning about the mutant world. The series also explores issues that reflect modern, real-world problems such as police attempting to kill mutants just because they look different, or the government only taking issue with mutants if they reveal themselves in public. The series' mutant underground is inspired by the Underground Railroad. A major struggle for the central parents of the series is that they are human and their children are mutants, and while they may sympathize with the mutants around them, "there's still a difference between them and the mutants and there's no getting around it". They also have to balance trying to help the cause with protecting their family.
Noting a growing trend in shorter, self-contained television seasons, Nix said in October 2017 that he wanted The Gifted to feel more like a traditional, long-running story and have each season end in a satisfying way that does not feel "close-ended". The season's fourth episode was designed to launch the full story arc, reuniting the main characters following the events of the first three episodes and showing their changed mindsets—the Strucker family gains a new appreciation of the mutant struggle for them to carry forward as they join the fight, while Polaris's time in prison has changed her outlook as well. The episode also reveals that mutants can be turned 