Eyes Without a Face (French: Les Yeux sans visage) is a 1960 French-language horror film directed by Georges Franju. The film stars Pierre Brasseur and Alida Valli. Based on the novel of the same name by Jean Redon, it revolves around a plastic surgeon who is determined to perform a face transplant on his daughter, who was disfigured in a car accident. During the film's production, consideration was given to the standards of European censors by minimizing gore. Although Eyes Without a Face was cleared by censors, its release in Europe caused controversy. Critical reaction ranged from praise to disgust.
In the United States, an edited and dubbed version of the film, titled The Horror Chamber of Dr. Faustus, was released by Lopert Pictures in 1962 as a double feature with The Manster. The film's initial critical reception was not overtly positive, but subsequent theatrical and home video re-releases improved its reputation. Modern critics praise Eyes Without a Face for its poetic nature as well as for being an influence on other filmmakers.


== Plot ==
Outside Paris, a woman dumps a corpse in the river. The body is identified by Dr. Génessier as his daughter Christiane, who was reported missing after an automobile accident disfigured her face. 
In reality, Christiane still lives in Dr. Génessier's mansion next to his private clinic, guarded by German Shepherds and other large dogs. The body (which was disposed of by his assistant Louise) belongs to a young woman whose face skin Dr. Génessier removed and unsuccessfully attempted to graft onto his daughter.

After her father leaves with promises to restore her face, Christiane, wearing a mask to cover her disfigurement, calls her fiancé Jacques Vernon, Dr. Génessier's assistant, but hangs up without saying a word.
Génessier's next victim was Edna Grüber. He and Louise carry a sedated Edna to the lab to prepare her for surgery, secretly watched by Christiane. Later, he removes Edna's face skin and successfully graft it onto Chrisiane's face. The heavily bandaged and faceless Edna attempts to escape but falls to her death from an upstairs window. After disposing of Edna's corpse, Génessier notices the new tissue is rejected within days and Christiane has to wear the mask again. She phones Jacques and says his name, but Louise interrupts the call.
Jacques informs the police, who have been investigating the disappearance of young women with similar facial characteristics. Jacques realizes one of the girls looks like Louise. Inspector Parot instructs Paulette Mérodon (recently arrested for shoplifting) to check herself into Génessier's clinic. Soon after, Paulette is picked up by Louise and delivered to Dr. Génessier. Before he begins surgery on Paulette, the police arrive.
While the doctor talks with the police, Christiane, disenchanted with her father's immoral experiments, while slowly losing her mind from guilt and isolation, decides to act. She frees Paulette and murders Louise by stabbing her in the neck. She also frees the dogs and doves that her father uses for experiments. Dr. Génessier dismisses the police (who readily accept his explanations) and returns to his lab. There, a newly acquired German Shepherd attacks him, inciting the other dogs to follow suit, mauling him to death. Christiane, unmoved by his death, strolls out into the woods outside with a dove in her hands.


== Cast ==
Pierre Brasseur as Doctor Génessier, a physician and father of Christiane. Génessier experiments on his pet dogs and performs heterograft surgeries on women to try and restore the face of his daughter Christiane. Brasseur previously worked with director Georges Franju in the drama, La Tête contre les murs (1958), again in a leading role playing a doctor.
Alida Valli as Louise, a woman who is Génessier's assistant, kidnaps young women, assists him in the laboratory and acts as a surrogate mother to Christiane. Louise aids Génessier partly because of his help in restoring her damaged face in eve