The Eyes of Tammy Faye is a 2021 American biographical drama film directed by Michael Showalter from a screenplay by Abe Sylvia, based on the 2000 documentary of the same name by Fenton Bailey and Randy Barbato of World of Wonder. The film tells the story of Tammy Faye Bakker (played by Jessica Chastain), from her humble beginnings growing up in International Falls, Minnesota, through the rise and fall of her televangelism career and marriage to Jim Bakker (played by Andrew Garfield). Cherry Jones and Vincent D'Onofrio also star. The film is produced by Chastain's production company, Freckle Films.
The Eyes of Tammy Faye had its world premiere at the Toronto International Film Festival in September 2021, and was released on September 17, 2021, by Searchlight Pictures. Critics praised the performances (particularly Chastain's) while criticizing the screenplay, deeming the film to be inferior to the documentary. At the 94th Academy Awards, the film won Best Actress (for Chastain) and Best Makeup and Hairstyling. Chastain also won the SAG Award and Critics' Choice Movie Award for Best Actress.


== Plot ==
Tamara "Tammy" Faye LaValley falls in love with Jim Bakker while studying at North Central Bible College in Minneapolis, Minnesota. The two marry despite disapproval from Tammy's mother Rachel, dropping out of college to preach and inspire Christian communities across the United States. Their preaching gets the attention of Pat Robertson's Christian Broadcasting Network, who hires them as hosts of children's show Jim and Tammy. Jim later becomes the first host of CBN's The 700 Club while the two welcome daughter Tammy Sue.
Tammy and Jim meet conservative pastor Jerry Falwell during a party, with Jerry expressing interest in working with CBN. Following an argument with Falwell in which Tammy dismisses the politicization of faith, she encourages Jim to create their own television network so that they can have control over their own programs. The two leave CBN and create the PTL Satellite Network, with their flagship show The PTL Club becoming popular over the years. Tammy invites Rachel and stepfather Fred to move in with them at their Tega Cay, South Carolina compound, after which Rachel expresses her growing suspicions over how PTL gets its money.
As the press becomes more skeptical and critical of PTL's handling of its finances, Tammy becomes flirtatious with music producer Gary S. Paxton, whom Jim fires following the birth of their son Jay. In the 1980s, Jim then focuses his attention on building a Christian theme park while Tammy becomes addicted to pills and discouraged by Falwell's political oversight. Falwell decries the "gay cancer." She invites AIDS patient and Christian pastor Steve Pieters for an interview about supporting the gay community, much to Falwell's disapproval.
After collapsing during a taping, Tammy argues with Jim over their strained relationship. Falwell takes control of PTL following news scandals about PTL's financial debt and Jim's extramarital affairs, including speculations about sexual relationships with men. Jim is ultimately imprisoned for fraud.
By 1994, Tammy and Jim have officially divorced, Rachel has died, and Tammy is struggling to revive her career and find television gigs. She gets an offer to be the special guest for a Christian concert at Oral Roberts University, which she hesitantly accepts. She preaches before performing a moving rendition of Battle Hymn of the Republic, during which she imagines a rousing gospel choir performing with her.
A textual epilogue reveals Falwell died in 2007, Jim returned to televangelism for a revived PTL after being released from prison, and Tammy continued to support LGBTQ+ communities until she died in July 20, 2007 at her home in Loch Lloyd, near Kansas City, Missouri, after an eleven-year bout with cancer at the age of 65.


== Cast ==


== Production ==
It was announced in May 2019 that Jessica Chastain and Andrew Garfield were cast to star in the f