F/X (also known as or subtitled Murder by Illusion) is a 1986 American action thriller film directed by Robert Mandel, written by Gregory Fleeman and Robert T. Megginson, and starring Bryan Brown, Brian Dennehy, Diane Venora, Cliff De Young, and Angela Bassett in her film debut. The film follows a special effects expert who is hired by the U.S. Department of Justice to stage the murder of a mobster about to enter the Witness Protection Program, but complications arise when he is targeted for murder himself; meanwhile, an NYPD detective becomes suspicious of the circumstances of the case.
The film was released to positive reviews from critics and was a box office success, earning $20.6 million on a $10 million budget. A sequel, F/X2: The Deadly Art of Illusion, was released in 1991. A spinoff television series, F/X: The Series, was produced from 1996 to 1998.


== Plot ==
Movie special effects expert Roland "Rollie" Tyler is hired by the Department of Justice to stage the murder of Mafia informant Nicholas DeFranco. DeFranco is set to testify against his former Mafia bosses and go into witness protection, but the DoJ is afraid he will be killed before the trial. Rollie rigs a gun with blanks and gives DeFranco a rig with radio transmitters and fake blood packs to simulate bullet hits. The DoJ supervisor on the case, Edward Mason, asks Rollie to be the "assassin" wearing a disguise. He is paid $30,000 and assured by Mason that he is "100% protected".
During the preparation, Lipton, the DoJ agent in charge, handles Rollie's gun. DeFranco wears Rollie's rig to an Italian restaurant and the public "assassination" goes flawlessly. Rollie is picked up by Lipton, but he tries to shoot Rollie. In the struggle for Lipton's gun, the driver is killed and the car crashes, allowing Rollie  to escape. He contacts Mason, who is shocked by Lipton's actions and instructs him to wait for other agents to take him to a safe location; however, another man thought to be Rollie is killed by the agents, proving that Mason is trying to kill him too. Rollie retreats to his girlfriend Ellen's apartment, but she is killed the next morning by a sniper, whom Rollie kills in a fight.
NYPD homicide detective Leo McCarthy investigates the deaths of Ellen and the sniper and realizes it is connected to DeFranco, whom he has been pursuing for years. He discovers that the assassination was faked and that Mason planned it. When he is suspended by his captain for his reckless methods, McCarthy manages to steal his captain's badge and gun.
Using an elaborate phone setup, Rollie lures Lipton out in the open and kidnaps him in his official car, taking him on a rough ride in the trunk to get Mason's address out of him. After stealing his van from an impound with the help of his assistant and evading police, Rollie goes to Mason's mansion where, using his special effects expertise, he defeats Mason's guards; McCarthy follows and alerts the New York State Police.
Mason and DeFranco realize Rollie has found them. DeFranco shoots out several windows in Mason's study and Rollie falls through one of the windows, appearing to be dead. Mason and DeFranco try to leave the house when a helicopter arrives, but DeFranco is shocked by a rigged metal screen door, disrupting his pacemaker. Before he dies of heart failure, Mason takes from him a key to a Swiss safe deposit box containing the funds DeFranco stole from the Mafia.
Mason prepares to escape, but is surprised by Rollie, who holds him at gunpoint with an Uzi. Mason tries to bribe Rollie by giving him the key, proposing that they split the money, but Rollie refuses and puts his gun down. Mason picks up the gun and demands the key back, but Rollie reveals the gun is empty and has Krazy Glue on its grip, before shoving Mason out of the mansion toward the police, who misinterpret his actions as a threat and fatally shoot him.
Rollie fakes his death and is taken to the morgue, where he is confronted by McCarthy. The film ends with