Feast of July is a 1995 American-British neo noir crime film directed by Christopher Menaul and produced by Merchant Ivory Productions, based on the 1954 novel by H. E. Bates, starring Embeth Davidtz and Ben Chaplin.


== Plot ==

The movie opens with Isabella Ford (Embeth Davidtz) travelling alone from Selmouth to Addisford on foot, and in an increasingly pathetic state. In a deserted cabin on the way, she gives birth to a stillborn baby. She buries it and continues her journey. Arriving in Addisford late in the evening, she meets lamplighter Ben Wainwright (Tom Bell), and enquires after a man named Arch Wilson (Greg Wise). Ben does not know him, but seeing her plight, takes her to his house. He instructs his wife (Gemma Jones) to get Bella washed up, and introduces his three children, Matty (Kenneth Anderson), Con (Ben Chaplin) and Jedd (James Purefoy). Matty, the youngest, is a shoemaker, Jedd is a soldier, and Con does not have a profession, but helps out with family chores. Bella is unable to eat any food offered her, but bursts into tears, and faints when she stands up to go to bed.
After a restless night with Arch very much on her mind, Bella wakes up next morning, and from her window, sees Mr and Mrs. Wainwright seeing off Jedd, who is returning to the army. As Bella prepares to leave, Mrs. Wainwright enquires about her family and learns that Bella has nowhere to go. She tells her that she can stay, as long as she does her share of house  work. 
That evening, Bella takes a pair of shoes that she received as a present from Arch to Matty in order to alter them as they are too large. Matty tells her that it can't be done as they are "cheap Yankee" shoes, which comes as a surprise to Bella. Matty says he will make her a new pair. The next day, Bella leaves for Aylesburgh to fetch leather. Con secretly follows Bella and when confronted by her, asks her if she would like to come out with him sometime. Bella tells him that she has no mind to go out with anyone. Con asks her to forget what he said, and leaves.
One day, after Jedd's arrival, he and Bella go for a walk in the woods, and Jedd flirts with her. That evening, Jedd and Ben go to the pub, and later, Arch drops off a drunken Jedd and Ben at their house, but drives off before Bella sees him. Jedd continues to flirt will Bella, much to Con's annoyance. The next day, crop harvest begins and the entire family goes to work in the fields. During a break, Jedd insists that Bella is not comfortable and picks her up and carries her to a shadier spot, in spite of Bella's polite protests. Jedd also forcefully offers her water and Con, who can't take it anymore, suddenly attacks Jedd with a scythe. Jedd retaliates with a rake. Mrs. Wainwright separates them. That night, at a party for all the villagers, Bella dances with each of the brothers in turn. After dancing with Con, Bella asks him why he fought Jedd, and  requests he watch his temper, as she does not want any troubles in the family which took her in.
The next day, as Bella sees Jedd off at the station, she finds Arch there. She follows him home, only to  learn that he is married and has a child. She decides to leave Addisford, while Mrs. Wainwright agrees since she set her sons one against the other. When Con arrives home, he runs to the station and tries to persuade Bella to stay. Bella confesses that she had been with another man and tells about the baby. Con replies that he loves her and that her past does not matter. Bella returns home, but Mrs. Wainwright receives her coldly. 
Con and Bella attend a party where she runs into Arch, and she accuses him of lying to her. At breakfast the next day, Con suddenly proposes to Bella in front of his parents, and Bella accepts. Con takes Bella boating on the river, but there they encounter Arch, who makes fun of them. When the bullying gets worse, Con, in a fit of rage, kills Arch with a stone, in spite of Bella's attempts to stop him.
Con and Bella flee Addisford. During the ni