Federal Hill is a neighborhood in Baltimore, Maryland, that lies just to the south of the city's central business district.  Many of the structures are included in the Federal Hill Historic District, listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1970. Other structures are included in the Federal Hill South Historic District, listed in 2003.


== Location ==
The neighborhood is named for the prominent hill that is easily viewed from the Inner Harbor area, to which the neighborhood forms the physical south boundary. The hillside is a lush green and serves as a community park.  The neighborhood occupies the northwestern part of a peninsula that extends along two branches of the Patapsco River—the Northwest Branch (ending at the Inner Harbor) and the Middle Branch. This peninsula is generally referred to as the South Baltimore Peninsula, and includes the neighborhoods of Federal Hill, Locust Point, Riverside, South Baltimore, and Sharp-Leadenhall. While not physically a part of the peninsula, Otterbein is also included in the collection of neighborhoods which make up greater South Baltimore. Traditionally, Federal Hill was roughly triangular, bordered by Hanover Street to the west; Hughes Street, the harbor, and Key Highway to the north and east; and Cross Street to the south.


== Amenities ==
The Cross Street Market, a historic marketplace built in the 19th century, continues to serve residents and is the primary social and commercial hub for the neighborhood.  As of late 2016, the City of Baltimore has entered into an agreement with Caves Valley Partners to renovate Cross Street Market.  The multimillion-dollar rebuild is anticipated to break ground during Spring 2017.
The primary business district is bounded by Montgomery, Ostend, Light, Charles and Hanover Streets, and is home to a large number of restaurants of a wide range of taste, quality, and price, and many small shops as well as a few larger, more practical stores.  The neighborhood is a popular destination for tavern goers and music lovers, with street festivals several times a year.  These are organized through a very active neighborhood organization and business organization, as is the annual Shakespeare on the Hill series of summer performances in the park atop the actual Federal Hill.  The neighborhood is also home to the American Visionary Art Museum and Maryland Science Center.
Significant and historic houses of worship include Christ Lutheran Church, Church of the Advent-Episcopal, Ebenezer African Methodist Episcopal Church, Light Street Presbyterian Church, Lee Street Baptist Church, Holy Cross Roman Catholic Church, and St. Mary's Star of the Sea Roman Catholic Church.  Federal Hill is served by Federal Hill Elementary School, Thomas Johnson Elementary Middle School,  Francis Scott Key Elementary and Middle School, and Digital Harbor High School.  The public library is the Light Street Branch of the famous Enoch Pratt Free Library.
Federal Hill is also home to many popular retail, dining, and entertainment options all within walking distance for most neighborhood residents.  With most daily needs covered by businesses within a few blocks of the community center, Federal Hill has emerged as a premier neighborhood for the increasing number of people choosing an urban lifestyle.


== Transportation ==
Federal Hill is located conveniently to Interstate 95, Interstate 395, the Baltimore-Washington Parkway, and Charles and Light Streets, which provide the major north-south surface route through Baltimore.  The western portions of the neighborhood are within walking distance of the Hamburg Street and Camden Yards stops on the Baltimore Light Rail.  The Charm City Circulator is a free bus system that services central Baltimore and consists of four separate routes.  Two of the routes, the Purple Route which runs from Penn Station to Federal Hill, and the Banner Route which runs from the Inner Harbor to Fort McHenry, service Federal Hill.


== Early history ==