Ferris Bueller's Day Off is a 1986 American teen comedy film written, co-produced, and directed by John Hughes. The film stars Matthew Broderick, Mia Sara, and Alan Ruck, with supporting roles from Jennifer Grey, Jeffrey Jones, Cindy Pickett, Edie McClurg, Lyman Ward, and Charlie Sheen. It tells the story of a high school slacker, Ferris, who skips school with his best friend Cameron and his girlfriend Sloane for a day in Chicago, regularly breaking the fourth wall to explain his techniques and inner thoughts.
Hughes wrote the screenplay in less than a week. Filming began in September 1985 and finished in November, featuring many Chicago landmarks including the Sears Tower, Wrigley Field, and the Art Institute of Chicago. The film was Hughes's love letter to Chicago: "I really wanted to capture as much of Chicago as I could. Not just in the architecture and landscape, but the spirit."
Released by Paramount Pictures on June 11, 1986, the film became the tenth-highest-grossing film of 1986 in the United States, grossing $70 million over a $5 million budget. The film received generally positive reviews from critics and audiences alike, who praised Broderick's performance, and the film’s humor and tone.
In 2014, the film was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress, being deemed "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant". The film was followed by a television series, starring Charlie Schlatter as the title character. A spin-off film titled Sam & Victor's Day Off, focusing on the two valets who took Cameron's father's Ferrari on a joy ride, is in development for Paramount+.


== Plot ==
On a beautiful spring day in a Chicago suburb, high school senior Ferris Bueller fakes illness to stay home from school, two months before his high school graduation. His parents, Katie and Tom, believe he is ill, though his sister, Jeanie, does not. After learning Ferris is absent from school for the ninth time that semester, the school's dean, Edward Rooney, becomes determined to expose Ferris's chronic truancy; Ferris has changed his attendance records by hacking into the school's computer system, making it appear as if he attends school regularly.
Ferris persuades his hypochondriac best friend, Cameron Frye, to help excuse Ferris's girlfriend, Sloane Peterson, from school by claiming that her grandmother has died. Cameron calls the school, pretending to be Sloane's father. Rooney, knowing Sloane is dating Ferris, is suspicious. Ferris also calls the school in the midst of Cameron's phone call to confirm his absence, thereby fooling Rooney. To complete the ruse that Sloane's father is picking her up from school, Ferris borrows Cameron's father's prized possession, a 1961 Ferrari 250 GT California Spyder. Cameron, fearing his father's wrath, is dismayed when Ferris decides to take the car on a day trip into Chicago; Ferris promises they will return the car as it was, including preserving the original odometer mileage.
Ferris, Cameron, and Sloane leave the car with two parking attendants, who promptly take it on a long joyride. Meanwhile, the trio explores the city, with Ferris taking care to stay out of view from his father. They visit the Art Institute of Chicago, use deception to lunch at an upscale restaurant, go to a Chicago Cubs baseball game, and attend the Von Steuben Day Parade, with Ferris jumping on a float and lip-syncing to "Danke Schoen" by Wayne Newton and "Twist and Shout" by the Beatles.
Rooney prowls the Bueller home for Ferris, becoming victim to several pratfalls. Jeanie skips class and returns home to confront Ferris, but finds Rooney instead; shocked by his appearance, she knocks him unconscious and calls the police. Rooney regains consciousness and leaves, and the police arrest Jeanie, believing she prank called the police station. While detained, she meets another delinquent who advises her to worry less about Ferris's exploits and more about her own life.