The Fiendish Plot of Dr. Fu Manchu is a 1980 comedy film. It was the final film featuring star Peter Sellers and David Tomlinson. Based on characters created by Sax Rohmer, the film stars Sellers in the dual role of Fu Manchu, a megalomaniacal Chinese evil genius, and English country gentleman detective Nayland Smith.
Pre-production began with Richard Quine as director. By the time production commenced, Piers Haggard had replaced him. Sellers handled the re-shoots himself. Released two weeks after Sellers' death, the film was a commercial and critical failure. It was also the final screen appearance for Tomlinson, who retired from acting shortly before its release.


== Plot ==
The film's opening titles announce it is set "possibly around 1933." The story concerns the 168-year-old Fu Manchu, who must duplicate the ingredients to the elixir vitae that extends his life after the original is accidentally destroyed by one of his minions.
When the Star of Leningrad diamond is stolen by a clockwork spider from a Soviet exhibition in Washington D.C., the FBI sends a pair of special agents (agents Pete Williams and Joe Capone) to London, in order to seek the assistance of Scotland Yard as a card from Fu Manchu's organisation, the Si-Fan, has been left at the crime. Sir Roger Avery of the Yard feels this is a job for Fu's nemesis, Sir Denis Nayland Smith, now retired.
Nayland Smith correctly surmises that Fu Manchu will steal the missing diamond's identical twin, held among the Crown Jewels of the United Kingdom in the Tower of London. Smith also predicts that Fu will be thwarted by the tight security (several aged Beefeaters) at the Tower, then will kidnap Queen Mary to gain the jewel. He recruits Alice Rage, a female police constable, to impersonate the Queen and fool Fu's gang. Rage is soon captured by Fu, but the plan backfires somewhat when she falls in love with her captor. She switches sides and willingly helps Fu.
The Crown Jewels are guarded by Sir Nules Thudd, an obese Chinese-cuisine-loving glutton. Thudd has obesity-related health problems, and has been ordered by the doctor to walk around for 5 mi (8.0 km) a day on stilts. He is promised access to Fu's outdoor restaurant of Chinese food, and in return, he helps the Si-Fan steal the diamond. Fu steals the rest of the Crown Jewels as well.
Nayland Smith then uses his flying country house, The Spirit of Wiltshire, to transport himself and his fellow officers all the way to Fu Manchu's mountain base in the Himalayas. Meanwhile, Fu has recreated the elixir vitae, only to find that it has no effect on him – one of the ingredients used was faulty.
Nayland Smith's country house is soon besieged by an army of Si-Fan. Nayland Smith demands an audience with Fu, and is transported to his old enemy, who is in poor health by this point. Nayland Smith reveals that he has hidden the real diamond. Fu offers to return the Crown Jewels in exchange for the diamond. Once Nayland Smith hands over the diamond, Fu has a new elixir vitae prepared for him. Fu becomes young and vibrant again.
Fu willingly hands over the Crown Jewels to Nayland Smith's allies. He also has a diamond identical to the Star of Leningrad handed over to Capone, arguing that the Russians will not see any difference. In a private meeting, Fu expresses his appreciation of Nayland Smith, who has been the only worthy adversary of his life. He offers Nayland Smith part of the elixir vitae, but asks him not to drink it until he returns to London. Fu warns Nayland Smith that his latest fiendish plot will wipe out his enemies.
Nayland Smith rejoins his fellow officers in time to see a rejuvenated Fu Manchu sporting an Elvis Presley-type jumpsuit. Fu rises from the floor, and his cohorts now form a rock band. They sing the song "Rock-a-Fu", as the story ends.


== Cast ==

Sellers also appears in an uncredited cameo as a Mexican bandito.


== Background ==
Sellers had previously recorded a 1955 Goon Show entitled "The Terrible Reven