First Blood is a 1982 American action film directed by Ted Kotcheff and co-written by and starring Sylvester Stallone as Vietnam War veteran John Rambo. It co-stars Richard Crenna as Rambo's mentor Sam Trautman and Brian Dennehy as Sheriff Will Teasle. It is the first installment in the Rambo franchise, followed by Rambo: First Blood Part II.
The film is based on the 1972 novel First Blood by David Morrell, which many directors and studios had unsuccessfully attempted to adapt in the 1970s. In the film, Rambo is a troubled and misunderstood Vietnam veteran who must rely on his combat and survival skills when a series of brutal events results in him having to survive a massive manhunt by police and government troops near the small town of Hope, Washington.
First Blood was released in the United States on October 22, 1982. Initial reviews were mixed, but the film was a box office success, grossing $125 million and becoming the 13th highest grossing film at the domestic box office and the seventh highest grossing film worldwide. In 1985, it also became the first Hollywood blockbuster to be released in China, holding the record for the largest number of tickets sold for an American film until 2018. Since its release, it has been reappraised by critics, with many highlighting the roles of Stallone, Dennehy and Crenna, and recognizing it as an influential film in the action genre.
Its success spawned a franchise, consisting of four sequels (co-written by and starring Stallone), an animated television series, a comic books series, a novel series and several video games.


== Plot ==
Vietnam War veteran John Rambo goes to a lake house looking for an old comrade, only to learn his friend died of cancer over a year earlier, brought on by exposure to Agent Orange during the war. He offers his condolences to the soldier's widow for her loss and gives her a photo of the pair and the rest of their unit, Baker Team.
Continuing his travels, Rambo reaches the town of Hope, Washington. As Rambo is walking into the  town, he is approached by the town's sheriff, Will Teasle, who greets Rambo and asks him where he is headed. He then offers Rambo a lift to 'make sure he is headed in the right  direction.' When Rambo, now in Teasle's car, asks if there is anywhere he can get something to eat, Teasle tells him that there is a diner further up the highway. Teasle then goes on to tell Rambo, who he considers a drifter, that he wouldn't like it in that town as it is a quiet and boring little town. Teasle then drops Rambo off in the outskirts of the town informing him that Portland, where Rambo initially said he was headed, lies straight ahead. As he is driving back towards the town, Teasle spots Rambo attempting to walk back towards the town. Visibly annoyed, Teasle arrests Rambo on charges of vagrancy, resisting arrest, and possessing a concealed knife. 
Led by the sadistic chief deputy Art Galt back at the station, Teasle's deputies abuse Rambo, triggering flashbacks of the torture he endured in Vietnam. When they try to dry shave him with a straight razor, Rambo snaps. He fights his way out of the sheriff's station, regains his knife, and steals a motorcycle before fleeing into the nearby woods. As a result Teasle organizes a search party with rifles, dogs, and a helicopter. Defying Teasle's orders, Galt tries to shoot Rambo from the helicopter as he is attempting to climb down a cliff. However, realising he is now a sitting duck, Rambo leaps from the cliff onto the trees below, injuring his right arm as he lands. With Galt still shooting at him, Rambo manages to throw a rock at the helicopter with his uninjured arm, cracking its windshield and causing the pilot to briefly lose control. Losing his balance, Galt, who had released his safety harness to get a better firing angle at Rambo while he was still on the cliff, falls to his death on the jagged rocks below. Having caught up with the rest of the search party, Teasle, using a pair of binoculars, i