A Fish Called Wanda is a 1988 heist comedy film directed by Charles Crichton and written by Crichton and John Cleese. It stars Cleese, Jamie Lee Curtis, Kevin Kline, and Michael Palin. The film follows a gang of diamond thieves who double-cross one another to recover stolen diamonds hidden by their jailed leader. His barrister becomes a central figure – and jealousies rage – as femme fatale Wanda seduces him to locate the loot.
The picture grossed over $188 million worldwide, becoming the seventh-highest-grossing film of 1988. It received three nominations at the 61st Academy Awards: Best Director, Best Original Screenplay, and Best Supporting Actor for Kline, which he would go on to win. A spiritual sequel, Fierce Creatures, was released in 1997. The British Film Institute ranked A Fish Called Wanda the 39th-greatest British film of the 20th century.


== Plot ==
London-based gangster George Thomason plans a jewel heist with his right-hand man, Ken Pile, an animal lover with a stutter. They bring in two Americans: con artist Wanda Gershwitz and weapons expert Otto West, a volatile anglophobe. Wanda and Otto are lovers, but pretend to be siblings so Wanda can work her charms on Ken and George. The heist succeeds and the gang escapes with a large sum in diamonds, which they hide. Wanda and Otto then betray George to the police and he is arrested. They return to collect the loot, with Wanda planning to double-cross Otto as well, but it is gone: suspecting duplicity, George had moved it to a safe deposit box and given Ken the key. Wanda sees Ken hide it in his fish tank, steals it, and conceals it in her locket.
To learn where the box is, Wanda decides to seduce George's barrister, Archie Leach. He is in a loveless marriage and quickly falls for her, but Otto's jealous interference causes their liaisons to go disastrously wrong. When Wanda accidentally leaves her locket at Archie's house his wife, Wendy, finds it and delightedly assumes it was a gift for her. Wanda demands that Archie retrieve her keepsake, but Wendy will not give it up. He then fakes a robbery at his home as a cover for its disappearance. It too is interrupted and foiled by Otto. Archie is later able to retrieve the locket, and returns it to Wanda at their next tryst, this time unraveled by innocent intruders. Realizing he will be unable to give her all she seeks; he subsequently telephones her to call off their affair. Otto arrives at Archie's house seeking to apologise for his rudeness's, but Wendy overhears their conversation and learns of Archie's liaison.
George asks Ken to eliminate the Crown's only eyewitness to the robbery, the elderly Eileen Coady. Ken repeatedly tries, but each time accidentally kills one of her three small dogs instead, causing him great distress. Finally, the last's grisly death gives Mrs Coady a fatal heart attack. With no witness, George seems poised to be released. He gives instructions to Ken, revealing the location of the diamonds. When Otto learns that Ken knows this, he tortures him into revealing it by tying him up and putting various items of food up his nostrils and in his mouth before hilariously eating all of his pet tropical fish one by one, leaving Ken's favorite, named Wanda, until last. Ken divulges that the diamonds are at the Cathcart Towers Hotel near Heathrow Airport, but does not know that Wanda has the key. 
Even with Otto's knowledge and Wanda's key, the two still need George to remain in prison. Testifying as a defense witness at his trial, Wanda unexpectedly gives evidence incriminating him. Archie is stunned by her statements and flubs his questioning, inadvertently calling her "darling". Wendy, watching from the public gallery, declares their marriage dead. Promising less prison time, Archie asks George about the diamonds and learns of Otto and Wanda's complicity and that Ken knows their location. Archie sees Wanda fleeing the court and shunts her into his car. With his career and marriage ruined, Archie re