Flubber is a 1997 American science-fiction comedy film directed by Les Mayfield (who had previously directed the John Hughes scripted remake, Miracle on 34th Street) and written by Hughes and Bill Walsh. A remake of The Absent-Minded Professor (1961), the film was produced by Walt Disney Pictures and stars Robin Williams, Marcia Gay Harden, Christopher McDonald, Ted Levine, Raymond J. Barry, Wil Wheaton and Clancy Brown, with Jodi Benson providing a voice. The film grossed $178 million worldwide and received negative reviews from critics. In selected theaters, the Pepper Ann episode "Old Best Friend" was featured before the film.


== Plot ==

Professor Philip Brainard, of Medfield College, is an absentminded professor who is developing a new energy source to raise enough money to save the college from closure. His preoccupation with his research distracts him from his fiancée and college president Sara Jean Reynolds; he has already missed two wedding dates, much to Sara's ire. On the day of the third attempted wedding, Brainard is approached by his former partner Wilson Croft, who has profited from ideas stolen from him, and now intends to steal Sara. Brainard takes this declaration as a joke.
Before Brainard can make it to the wedding, his latest experiment shows quick progress, causing him to miss the wedding. The resulting substance created from the experiment is a sentient green goo with enormous elasticity and kinetic energy. It increases in speed as it bounces and proves difficult to control, wreaking havoc on the neighborhood before the professor finally manages to capture it. Weebo, Brainard's hovering robot assistant, classifies the substance as "flying rubber", leading Brainard to christen it "Flubber". Brainard continues to work on Flubber into the early morning, looking to stabilize the Flubber's movement, instead of stimulating it. Brainard's incorrectly set watch alarm goes off at 6:30 AM, and Weebo informs him that he has missed the wedding. Brainard goes to Sara's office and unsuccessfully attempts to explain the situation to her, after which he becomes all the more determined to prove the Flubber's worth and win her back.
Meanwhile, Medfield College sponsor Chester Hoenicker (who is first seen in a newspaper article as the one threatening to foreclose the college) is disappointed that Brainard has failed his son Bennett in chemistry class. That night, Hoenicker sends his security guards Smith and Wesson to Brainard's house in an attempt to persuade Brainard into giving Bennett a better grade. However, Brainard is too busy experimenting with the Flubber to even notice them and unknowingly knocks them unconscious with a Flubber-coated golf ball and bowling ball. Later, Brainard uses Flubber to give his vintage Ford Thunderbird flight, and during a test run, he discovers Wilson flirting with Sara (making a bet that she will buy him dinner if Medfield wins, or join him for a weekend in the mountains if they lose). Afterward, Weebo attempts to confess her love of Brainard, only to be shrugged off as a computer. In response, she secretly creates a holographic human version of herself named Sylvia in hopes of winning him over. Before Weebo can kiss Brainard in this form as he sleeps, Brainard awakens with another idea for Flubber. He enters the vacant basketball arena and tests the effects of Flubber on a basketball and his shoes. Right before the game, he gives Flubber-padded shoes to the abysmally unskilled Medfield basketball team to increase their abilities and beat the Rutland team. Back in Brainard's home, looking to have some fun, Weebo unleashes Flubber from his case, allowing him to dance around the house and cause general mayhem.
After the close but successful basketball game, Brainard's attempt to win Sara back into his favor fails. Upon returning home, Weebo records Brainard as he releases his emotional baggage, saying his absent-mindedness is due to his love of Sara. After this, he resignedly goes to be