Forget Paris is a 1995 American romantic comedy film produced, directed, co-written by and starring Billy Crystal as an NBA referee and Debra Winger as an independent working woman whose lives are interrupted by love and marriage.
It also stars Joe Mantegna, Julie Kavner, Cynthia Stevenson, Richard Masur, Cathy Moriarty and John Spencer. A number of professional basketball players, present and past, appear as themselves.


== Plot ==
At a restaurant in New York City, Andy prepares to introduce his friends to his fiancée, Liz. As the couple waits for the rest of the party to arrive, he tells her the story of how his friends Mickey and Ellen came to fall in love. As each of Andy's friends arrive, more of the story is unfolded.
Mickey Gordon is a National Basketball Association referee who honors his recently deceased father's wishes by burying him with his World War II Army platoon in France, of which he was the sole survivor. The plans are delayed when the airline misplaces the casket.
Ellen Andrews, an airline employee from Wichita working in Paris, assists Mickey in locating and retrieving the casket. She surprises him by attending the burial so he will not be alone. Mickey rides back to Paris with Ellen, and they get to know each other along the way. He decides to delay his return trip to the US to spend time with Ellen. They fall in love, but Mickey is forced to return for the beginning of the NBA season.
Mickey's loneliness leads him to lose his temper during a nationally televised game. Suspended by the NBA for a week, he returns to Paris to see Ellen. He learns Ellen is married but separated, and is unsure if she and her husband will get back together. 
While Mickey is in Charlotte refereeing a game, Ellen arrives, revealing that she has gotten a divorce. Having quit her job in France, she marries him. After a honeymoon period spent on the road during the NBA season, the couple settles in the San Fernando Valley outside Mickey's hometown of Los Angeles.
When the next basketball season begins, Ellen takes an entry-level customer service job with American Airlines, while Mickey travels with the NBA. Hating her new job and only seeing him a few days each month, Ellen becomes lonely and depressed. She asks Mickey to quit his job; he compromises by taking a one-year leave of absence and briefly working as a car salesman. Ellen gets promoted, climbing the corporate ladder, leaving Mickey at home to tend to her rather senile father, Arthur.
Mickey, unhappy at home with Arthur, decides to return early to the NBA. He comes home from a road trip to find Ellen gone. Before he can read her note, she arrives and explains that she had simply returned to Kansas to deliver Arthur to her siblings so they can be alone to repair their marriage.
Ellen tells Mickey she has been offered a transfer to Dallas. He refuses to move away from California, so she takes the airline's other offer of a transfer to Paris. Now separated, they are seemingly content in their original arrangements: Mickey traveling with the NBA, and Ellen working for an airline in Paris. It is obvious to everyone that they miss each other.
At the restaurant, Andy's friends have caught Liz up to date with the latest development coming four months prior. A basketball fan enters the restaurant and informs the group of an odd occurrence during the traditional singing of "The Star-Spangled Banner" prior to that night's New York Knicks game at Madison Square Garden. Mickey decides to go AWOL from his job and immediately return to Paris to find Ellen.
Before Mickey can cross the basketball court, he spots Ellen in the arena. They meet and reconcile at mid-court, and as the arena lights come on after the anthem, the entire crowd sees them kiss.
Mickey and Ellen arrive at the restaurant together and re-tell Liz the story of their relationship.


== Cast ==


=== As themselves ===


=== NBA cameos ===
During scenes in which Mickey is working as a referee, several professional basketba