Four Weddings and a Funeral is a 1994 British romantic comedy film directed by Mike Newell. It is the first of several films by screenwriter Richard Curtis to star Hugh Grant, and follows the adventures of Charles (Grant) and his circle of friends through a number of social occasions as they each encounter romance. Andie MacDowell co-stars as Charles's love interest Carrie, with Kristin Scott Thomas, James Fleet, Simon Callow, John Hannah, Charlotte Coleman, David Bower, Corin Redgrave, and Rowan Atkinson in supporting roles.
The film was made in six weeks, cost under £3 million, and became an unexpected success and the highest-grossing British film in history at the time, with worldwide box office total of $245.7 million, and receiving Academy Award nominations for Best Picture and Best Original Screenplay. Additionally, Grant won the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor - Motion Picture Musical or Comedy and the BAFTA Award for Best Actor in a Leading Role, and the film won the BAFTA Awards Best Film, Best Direction, and Best Actress in a Supporting Role for Scott Thomas. The film's success propelled Hugh Grant to international stardom, particularly in the United States.
In 1999, Four Weddings and a Funeral was placed 23rd on the British Film Institute's 100 greatest British films of the 20th century. In 2016, Empire magazine ranked it 21st in their list of the 100 best British films. A 2017 poll of 150 actors, directors, writers, producers, and critics for Time Out magazine ranked it the 74th best British film ever.
Curtis reunited director Newell and the surviving cast for a 25th anniversary reunion Comic Relief short entitled One Red Nose Day and a Wedding, which aired in the UK during Red Nose Day on 15 March 2019.


== Plot ==
On 1 May 1993, at the wedding of Angus and Laura in Somerset, the perpetually late best man Charles; his flatmate Scarlett; his aristocratic friend Fiona and her brother Tom; Gareth and his partner Matthew; and Charles's deaf brother David, all gather. All are unmarried. Charles forgets the rings and hastily borrows two from the congregation, which prove to be incongruous. At the reception, he makes a risqué speech and is attracted to Carrie, an American woman who has been working in England. They spend the night together. In the morning, Carrie, who is returning to the U.S., laments to him that they may have "missed a great opportunity".
Three months later, at the London wedding of Bernard and Lydia – who met at the previous wedding – Tom is best man. Charles is excited to run into Carrie, who has returned to the U.K. He is disappointed to meet Hamish, Carrie's older, wealthy Scottish fiancé. A young woman named Serena is attracted to David.
During the reception, Charles is humiliated by several ex-girlfriends. These include the distraught Henrietta, called 'Duckface' by Fiona and whose brother was inadvertently insulted by Charles at the first wedding. Henrietta claims that Charles is a "serial monogamist" fearful of commitment. He retreats to an empty hotel suite, from which he sees Carrie and Hamish depart by taxi. Charles becomes temporarily trapped in the room when the newlyweds stumble in to have sex. Carrie returns to the reception; she and Charles spend a second night together.
A month later, Charles receives an invitation to Carrie's wedding to Hamish. While searching for a gift on London's South Bank, he runs into her. Charles helps Carrie choose a wedding dress, after which she recounts her 33 sexual partners to him; Charles, who was number 32, awkwardly confesses he loves her, and Carrie gently rebuffs him.
A month later, Charles and his friends attend Carrie and Hamish's wedding in Perthshire. The flamboyant Gareth tells the group to seek potential mates; Scarlett meets Chester, a Texan. Henrietta points out to Charles her new boyfriend. As Charles watches Carrie and Hamish dance, Fiona, aware of Charles's unhappiness, tells him that she remains single because she loves him. Charles, th