Freaky Friday is a 2003 American fantasy comedy film directed by Mark Waters and written by Heather Hach and Leslie Dixon. Based on Mary Rodgers's 1972 novel of the same name, it is the third adaptation of the same story and fifth installment overall in the Freaky Friday franchise. It stars Jamie Lee Curtis and Lindsay Lohan as a mother and daughter, respectively, whose bodies are switched by a mysterious and magical Chinese fortune cookie.
The film was released in theaters on August 6, 2003, by Walt Disney Pictures and distributed by Buena Vista Pictures. It grossed over $160 million worldwide on a budget of $26 million and received positive reviews from critics. The film earned Curtis a Golden Globe nomination for Best Actress in a Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy. 


== Plot ==
Aspiring teenage musician Anna Coleman lives with her widowed psychiatrist mother Tess, younger brother Harry, and grandfather Alan. Tess is engaged to Ryan, whom Anna has not accepted as she has not fully reconciled the death of her father three years earlier.
At school, Anna deals with strict teachers, bullying from her former best friend Stacey Hinkhouse, and her crush on Jake, whom her mother disapproves of. Pink Slip, the band Anna plays lead guitar for, is scheduled to audition for a spot in Wango Tango at the House of Blues, but Anna is prohibited from attending as the audition falls on the same night as Tess's wedding rehearsal. While dining at a Chinese restaurant, the two get into a heated argument, which the owner interrupts by giving them fortune cookies. They go into separate bathrooms and read their fortunes aloud simultaneously before feeling an intense earthquake, to which the rest of the restaurant is oblivious.
The next morning, Anna and Tess wake up in each other's bodies. Tess goes to school as Anna and begins to fully understand her daughter's woes, realizing that Anna's English teacher, Mr. Bates, is deliberately targeting her out of spite at Tess's having rejected his prom invitation decades earlier, and intervenes by threatening to report him unless he ends his mistreatment towards Anna. Meanwhile, Anna has difficulty handling her mother's clients and stress of her upcoming wedding. The two return to the restaurant and learn that only showing selfless love towards each other will reverse the switch.
Anna attends Harry's parent-teacher conference, where she reads his composition about how much he actually admires Anna and decides to be nicer to him. Tess attempts to make amends with Stacey, but gets sent to detention when Stacey frames her for cheating on a test, finally demonstrating to Tess how cruel and mean-spirited Anna's former friend has become. When Jake notices her sneaking out of detention, he offers to help her finish the test. Tess realizes that she misjudged him, but ends up putting him off Anna after she vandalizes Stacey's test as revenge for bullying Anna by erasing most of the answers and writing "I'M STUPID!" on it.
Meanwhile, Ryan surprises Tess with a talk show interview to discuss her latest book. As Anna herself has not read the book, she instead goes into an amusing tirade about getting older. Tess and Jake watch the interview and while she is embarrassed, he is impressed. Anna later bumps into Jake at his job, and they bond over music.
At the rehearsal dinner, Anna's bandmates Maddie and Peg try to convince her to sneak off to the audition, but they are caught by security. Ryan gives Anna permission to go in hopes of winning her acceptance, and encourages Tess to support the band, claiming he can hold down the fort for a while. Since Tess cannot play, Anna plays the guitar backstage while Tess mimes along. Finally
realizing the full scope of Anna's musical talents, Tess promises to regard her daughter's ambitions and passions with more respect. Jake again becomes enamored with Anna upon seeing her perform.
Back at the rehearsal dinner, Tess tells Anna to ask Ryan to postpone the wedding until the switc