Jason Goes to Hell: The Final Friday is a 1993 American supernatural slasher film directed by Adam Marcus from a screenplay by Dean Lorey and Jay Huguely, based on a story by Huguely and Marcus. The ninth installment in the Friday the 13th franchise and a sequel to Friday the 13th Part VIII: Jason Takes Manhattan (1989), it stars John D. LeMay, Kari Keegan, Erin Gray,  Allison Smith, Steven Culp, Steven Williams, and Kane Hodder as Jason Voorhees, reprising his role from Friday the 13th Part VII: The New Blood (1988) and Jason Takes Manhattan. The film follows Jason's spirit as it possesses various people to continue his killings after his death. To resurrect himself, Jason must find and possess a member of his bloodline, but he can also be permanently killed by one of his surviving relatives using a magical dagger.
The film was conceived by co-writer and director Marcus under Cunningham, producer and director of the first film. After the low box-office returns of Friday the 13th Part VIII: Jason Takes Manhattan, Paramount Pictures sold the character rights of Jason Voorhees to New Line Cinema.
Jason Goes to Hell was theatrically released on August 13, 1993, and grossed $15.9 million at the box office on a budget of $3 million, becoming the second-worst performing film in the series, after Jason Takes Manhattan. The film was panned by critics and fans alike, criticizing its supernatural elements and elimination of Jason Voorhees as a physical character.
The next installment in the series, Jason X, was released in 2001, and a narrative sequel/crossover, Freddy vs. Jason, was released in 2003.


== Plot ==
A few years after his supposed demise in Manhattan, Jason Voorhees resurrects, returns to Camp Crystal Lake and stalks a lone woman. The woman, who is an undercover FBI agent, lures Jason into an ambush, where FBI SWAT agents attack and obliterate his body with a grenade launcher / mortar. Jason's remains are sent to a morgue, where his still-beating heart entices the coroner to eat it, allowing Jason's soul to possess him. Jason, in the coroner's body, escapes the morgue, killing another coroner and two FBI guards in the process.
At Crystal Lake, Jason finds three partying teenagers and kills them while they were having sex. When two officers are called to investigate, Jason kills one of them and possesses the other. Meanwhile, bounty hunter Creighton Duke discovers that only members of Jason's bloodline can permanently kill him, and he will return to his near-invincible state if he possesses a family member. The only living relatives of Jason are his half-sister Diana Kimble, her daughter Jessica, and Stephanie, the infant daughter of Jessica and Steven Freeman.
Jason heads to Diana's house and attempts to possess her, but Steven defends her. Diana is killed and Jason escapes. Steven is blamed for Diana's murder and arrested. In jail, he meets Duke, who provides Steven with information about Jason and his relation to Jessica. Determined to get to Jessica before Jason, Steven escapes from jail. He goes to the Voorhees house to find evidence to convince Jessica of her ties to Jason. Jessica's boyfriend, TV reporter Robert Campbell, enters the house and receives a phone call. Steven overhears the resulting conversation, which reveals that Campbell is attempting to "spice up" his show's ratings by emphasizing Jason's return from death, having stolen Diana's body from the morgue for this reason. Jason then grabs Campbell, and transfers his heart to him through their mouths. Now in Campbell's body, Jason leaves with Steven in pursuit and attempts to possess Jessica to be reborn. However, Steven hits him and drags Jessica to his car. He tries to explain the situation to Jessica, who does not believe him and goes to the police station without him.
Jason arrives there and kills all officers along his path to Jessica, whom he nearly possesses before Steven stops him again. In the resulting chaos, Duke escapes from his cell. Now believ