Friday the 13th: The Final Chapter  is a 1984 American slasher film directed by Joseph Zito, produced by Frank Mancuso Jr., and starring Kimberly Beck, Corey Feldman, Crispin Glover, and Peter Barton. It is the sequel to Friday the 13th Part III (1982) and the fourth installment in the Friday the 13th franchise. Picking up immediately after the events of the previous film, the plot follows a presumed-dead Jason Voorhees who escapes from the morgue and returns to Crystal Lake to continue his killing spree. The film marks the debut of the character Tommy Jarvis (Feldman), who would make further appearances in two sequels and related media, establishing him as Jason's archenemy.
Much like Part III, the film was originally supposed to be the final installment in the series. Mancuso Jr. wanted to conclude the series as he felt no one respected him for his producing work on it regardless of how much the films earned at the box office, while also wanting to work on other projects. Paramount Pictures supported the decision, as they were aware of the declining popularity of slasher films at the time of its release. As a result, the film was marketed as "The Final Chapter" to ensure it as such. Make-up artist Tom Savini, who worked on the first film, returned because he wanted to help kill off Jason, whom he helped create.
The film was originally scheduled to be released in October but was pushed up to April 13, 1984. Upon its theatrical release, the film grossed $33 million in the U.S. on a budget of $2.2 million, making it the fourth most attended of the Friday the 13th series with approximately 9,815,700 tickets sold. Though the film received generally negative reviews from critics at the time of release, it has retrospectively come to be considered one of the stronger entries in the series. Despite being billed as the final film, its success prompted another sequel, Friday the 13th: A New Beginning, one year later, followed by a further six sequels and a reboot.


== Plot ==
Police clean up the grounds, and Jason Voorhees' body, believed to be dead, is taken to the morgue. Jason spontaneously revives and escapes from the cold storage at the hospital, murdering the coroner Axel Burns with a hacksaw and gutting Nurse Robbie Morgan with a scalpel. The following day, a group of teenagers drives to Crystal Lake for the weekend. The group consists of Paul, his girlfriend Sam, virgin Sara, her boyfriend Doug, awkward Jimmy, and jokester Ted. On the way, the group comes across Pamela Voorhees' tombstone and a hitchhiker, who Jason soon kills.
The teens arrive and meet neighbors Trish Jarvis, her twelve-year-old brother Tommy, and the family dog Gordon. While going for a walk the next day, the teens meet twin sisters Tina and Terri and go skinny dipping with them. Trish and Tommy happen upon the scene, and Trish is invited to a party taking place that night. Afterward, when their car breaks down, Trish and Tommy are helped out by a young man named Rob Dier. They take him to their house, where he meets their mother. Tommy shows him several monster masks he made before Rob leaves to go camping.
Later that night, the teens begin the party. A jealous Sam sees Tina flirting with Paul and leaves. She goes out to the lake, where Jason impales her from under a raft. When Paul goes out to look for her, he is harpooned in the groin. Terri tries to leave the party early, but Jason stabs her with a spear before she can get on her bike. Mrs. Jarvis arrives home and discovers the power is out. While searching for her children and Gordon, she is killed offscreen. Trish and Tommy soon arrive and realize their mother is missing. Trish goes to search for her and finds Rob's campsite. It is revealed that Rob is the brother of Sandra Dier. Rob further explains to her that Jason is still alive and that he came to Crystal Lake to avenge his sister's death. Worried about Tommy's safety, Trish and Rob return to the house.
After sleeping with Tina, Jimmy goes downst