Fried Green Tomatoes is a 1991 American comedy-drama film directed by Jon Avnet and based on Fannie Flagg's 1987 novel Fried Green Tomatoes at the Whistle Stop Cafe. Written by Flagg and Carol Sobieski, and starring Kathy Bates, Jessica Tandy, Mary Stuart Masterson, Mary-Louise Parker and Cicely Tyson, the film tells the story of a middle-aged housewife who, unhappy with her life, befriends an elderly lady in a nursing home and is enthralled by the tales she tells of people she used to know.
The film was released in theaters in the United States on December 27, 1991, garnered positive reviews from critics and was a box office success, grossing $119.4 million on a $11 million budget.
Fried Green Tomatoes received nominations for two Academy Awards and two BAFTA awards, as well as nominations for three Golden Globe Awards and a  Guldbagge Award.


== Plot ==
Evelyn Couch is a timid housewife in her 40s in 1980s Birmingham. Her slovenly husband Ed has an aunt living at an Alabama nursing home, where Evelyn meets elderly Ninny Threadgoode. Evelyn befriends Ninny, who tells her the story about the long-abandoned town of Whistle Stop and its residents.
Ninny's tale begins with tomboy Idgie, the youngest member of the Threadgoode family. Following a wedding, Idgie's older brother Buddy is killed by a train, devastating Idgie and Buddy's girlfriend, Ruth Jamison. Idgie remains socially withdrawn well into her adolescence. At the Threadgoode family's request, Ruth - who had since left town - returns to try and help her. Idgie initially rebuffs Ruth's attempt at friendship, but over the summer they gradually develop a deep attachment. Ruth eventually moves to Valdosta, Georgia, to marry the older, wealthy Frank Bennett. 
Idgie eventually visits Ruth to discovers that Frank abuses the pregnant Ruth, whose mother has since passed away. Against Frank's violent attempts to stop her, Idgie and some friends rescue Ruth, who returns to Whistle Stop with them, where her baby, Buddy Jr., is born. Papa Threadgoode gives Idgie money to start a business and help care for Ruth and Buddy Jr. She and Ruth open the Whistle Stop Cafe, employing the family cook Sipsey and her son, Big George, whose excellent barbecue becomes widely popular. 
Despite the cafe's success, it soon becomes controversial because it serves the town's African American residents. Motivated by this, Frank leads the Ku Klux Klan to attack the cafe, verbally attacking Ruth and unsuccessfully trying to lynch Big George, before fleeing when Sheriff Grady Kilgore assembles a posse against them. Not long after, Frank comes to Whistle Stop to kidnap his infant son, but an unseen assailant thwarts his attempt, and he is soon reported missing. 
About five years later, Frank's truck surfaces in a nearby river. Idgie becomes a suspect, due to threatening Frank for beating Ruth. Grady detains both her and Big George; he offers to release Idgie and pin Frank's supposed murder solely on Big George, but she refuses. During the subsequent trial, Reverend Scroggins provides false testimony that supports both Idgie's and Big George's alibis. Taking into account Frank's reputation for drunkenness and his body never being found, the judge rules his probable death as accidental and drops all charges against Idgie and Big George.
Shortly after the trial, Ruth is diagnosed with terminal cancer and soon dies. When trains stop running through Whistle Stop, the café closes, and the townsfolk drift away. Ninny's story concludes, but not before Frank's fate is revealed. When Frank attempted to kidnap Buddy Jr., Sipsey hit him over the head with a cast-iron skillet, killing him. To prevent Sipsey from getting lynched, Idgie and Big George dumped the car in the lake, then supposedly cut up Frank's body and cooked him in Big George's barbecue to cover up the evidence, serving it to the very cop investigating his disappearance.
In the present, Ninny's story motivates Evelyn to take more control of her life, ditc