From Russia with Love is a 1963 spy film and the second in the James Bond series produced by Eon Productions, as well as Sean Connery's second role as MI6 agent 007 James Bond.
The picture was directed by Terence Young, produced by Albert R. Broccoli and Harry Saltzman, and written by Richard Maibaum and Johanna Harwood, based on Ian Fleming's 1957 novel From Russia, with Love. In the film, Bond is sent to assist in the defection of Soviet consulate clerk Tatiana Romanova in Turkey, where SPECTRE plans to avenge Bond's killing of Dr. No. The film followed Dr. No (1962) and was followed by Goldfinger (1964).
Following the success of Dr. No, United Artists greenlit a sequel and doubled the budget available for the producers. In addition to filming on location in Turkey, the action scenes were shot at Pinewood Studios, Buckinghamshire, and in Scotland. Production ran over budget and schedule, and was rushed to finish by its scheduled October 1963 release date.
From Russia with Love was a critical and commercial success. It took in more than $78 million in worldwide box-office receipts, far more than its $2 million budget and more than its predecessor Dr. No, thereby becoming a blockbuster in 1960s cinema. The film is considered one of the best entries in the series. In 2004, Total Film magazine named it the ninth-greatest British film of all time; it was the only Bond film to appear on the list. It was also the first film in the series to win a BAFTA Award for Best Cinematography.


== Plot ==
International criminal organisation SPECTRE seeks  revenge against MI6 agent James Bond for the death of their agent Dr. No in Jamaica. SPECTRE's chief planner, Czechoslovak chess grandmaster Kronsteen devises a plan to lure Bond into a trap, using as bait the prospects of procuring a Lektor cryptography device from the Soviet Union's consulate in Istanbul. SPECTRE operative Rosa Klebb, a former head of SMERSH (Soviet counter-intelligence), is assigned to oversee the mission and chooses trained killer Donald Grant to assassinate Bond at the right moment. To set the trap, Klebb recruits a cipher clerk at the consulate, Tatiana Romanova, to unwittingly assist in the plan, tricking Romanova into believing Klebb is still working for SMERSH.
In London, Bond is called to a meeting with M and informed that Tatiana has requested Bond's help to defect to the West, in exchange for providing British intelligence with a Lektor. Exactly as Kronsteen predicted, M suspects a trap but decides to honour Tatiana's request. Before departing, Bond is equipped with a special briefcase from Q Branch, containing several defensive gadgets and an ArmaLite AR-7 sniper rifle, to help on his assignment. Upon arriving in Istanbul, Bond works alongside the head of MI6's branch in the city, Ali Kerim Bey, while he awaits word from Tatiana. Grant is shadowing Bond to protect him until he steals the Lektor. During this time, Kerim is attacked by Soviet agent Krilencu. After an attack on the men while they hide out at a gypsy settlement, Kerim assassinates Krilencu with Bond's help before he can flee the city.
Eventually, Tatiana meets Bond at his hotel suite, where she agrees to provide plans to the consulate to help him steal the Lektor. The pair spend the night together, unaware that SPECTRE is filming them. Upon receiving the consulate's floor plans from Romanova, Bond and Kerim make a plan to steal the Lektor, before all three make haste to escape the city aboard the Orient Express. Aboard, Kerim and Bond subdue Benz, a Soviet security officer. While Bond returns to Tatiana to wait for their rendezvous with one of Kerim's sons, Grant kills both Kerim and Benz. Angered, Bond questions Romanova's true motives.
When the train arrives in Belgrade, Bond informs one of Kerim's sons of his father's death and receives instructions to rendezvous with a British agent named Nash at Zagreb. However, Grant overhears the conversation, kills Nash and assumes his identity. He drugs Ta