A Fun house is an amusement facility found in amusement parks and funfair midways, equipped with various devices designed to surprise, challenge, or amuse visitors. Unlike thrill rides or dark rides, fun houses are participatory attractions where visitors enter and move around at their own pace. Incorporating aspects of a obstacle course, they seek to distort conventional perceptions and startle people with unpredictable physical circumstances.


== Common features ==

Originally starting in Coney Island in the early 1900's, the Fun house  was initially a house or large building containing a number of amusement devices (e.g. Mechanical versions of what can be found on a children's playground).
The most common amusements were:

Slides - Some up to two stories high. Most were made of polished hardwood and riders sat on burlap mats to protect themselves from friction burns and to prevent rubber-soled shoes from slowing the slider down.
Spinning disks - While the disk was stationary, patrons would sit in the Center. As the operator started to spin the disk, people were thrown off by inertia and would end up against a padded wall. A variation was a disk with a raised center, shaped much like a Bundt cake mold; as the device sped up, people slid downhill and outward.
A horizontal revolving cylinder or barrel, sometimes called "barrel of love" or "barrel of fun", that patrons would try to walk through without falling down.
Floor tricks where sections of floor swung up and down, tip from side to side or move forward and back, either motorized or activated by the person's weight. There were also stairs that moved up and down, tipped from side to side, or slid side-to-side, alternating directions between steps.
Compressed air jets shooting air up from the floor, originally designed to blow up women's skirts but meant to startle anyone.
An array of distorting mirrors.
An extra-large ball pit.
One type of trick plays on the image of a trap door: it consists of a section of floor that suddenly drops a few inches, making visitors think they are falling into a trap door.
Some fun houses brought new arrivals through a short series of dark corridors or a mirror maze or door maze (many identical doors forming squares, only one of which opened in each square), often leading onto a small stage where they had to negotiate a series of rocking floors, air jets and other obstacles, while people already inside the funhouse could watch and laugh at them. A few even provided benches for the watchers. Once patrons were inside, they could stay as long as they wished, repeating each feature as many times as they chose.
This type of fun house resembled a miniature version of Steeplechase Park at Coney Island, whose 'Pavilion of Fun'—a building resembling a huge airplane hangar—included, in addition to rides, a gigantic slide, a spinning disk probably 50 feet (15 m) across, and a lighted stage called the "Insanitarium" where patrons emerging from the Steeplechase ride were harassed by a clown carrying an electric wand, while women in skirts were at the mercy of air-jet bursts. Through the first half of the 20th century most amusement parks had this type of fun house, but its free-form design was its undoing. It was labor-intensive, needing an attendant at almost every device, and when people spent two hours in the fun house, they were not out on the midway buying tickets to other rides and attractions. Traditional fun houses gave way to walk-throughs, where patrons followed a set path all the way through and emerged back on the midway a few minutes later. These preserved some of the traditional fun house features, including various kinds of moving floors, sometimes a revolving barrel and a small slide. They added such things as crooked rooms, where a combination of tilt and optical illusion made it hard to know which way was up, and dark corridors with various popup and jump out surprises, optical illusions and sound effects.
Although some walkthroughs were 