The 2024 United Kingdom general election is scheduled to be held on Thursday, 4 July 2024. It will determine the composition of the House of Commons, which determines the Government of the United Kingdom. Significant constituency boundary changes will be in effect, the first such changes since before the 2010 general election. It will be the first UK general election where voter identification is required to vote in person in Great Britain. The general election will be the first since the UK's departure from the European Union on 31 January 2020, which was a major issue in the previous election; it will also be the first to take place under the Dissolution and Calling of Parliament Act 2022. This is the first general election following the passing and state funeral of Queen Elizabeth II and the first general election under King Charles III. 
Discussion around the campaign has been focused on the prospect of a change in government, with the opposition Labour Party led by Keir Starmer having a significant lead in polling over the governing Conservative Party led by Rishi Sunak. Public opinion in favour of a change in government was reflected in the Conservatives' poor performance at the 2022 and 2023 local elections, where Labour and the Liberal Democrats made gains from Conservatives, often by very wide margins. The parties made further gains in the 2024 local elections, with the Liberal Democrats overtaking the Conservatives to second place in terms of number of councillors. Many by-elections were won by their candidates during the parliament. A record number of Conservative MPs are not standing for re-election.


== Background ==
The results of the 2019 general election are given below, alongside the numbers in the House of Commons at dissolution. Seat counts changed through 23 by-elections and a number of defections and suspensions of members from their party that took place throughout the 2019–2024 parliament. There were no vacant seats at dissolution.

For full details of changes during the 2019-2024 Parliament, see By-elections and Defections, suspensions and resignations.
The Conservative Party under Boris Johnson had won a landslide victory in the 2019 general election. The Conservative government implemented the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union on 31 January 2020. Less than two months after the 2019 general election, COVID-19 had reached the UK, and the government introduced measures to reduce its spread, including several legally-enforced lockdowns. The media later reported that there had been social gatherings by the Conservative Party and government staff that contravened these restrictions. Johnson and the then chancellor of the Exchequer, Rishi Sunak, were given fixed penalty notices by the police in April 2022 as a result. Johnson announced his resignation on 7 July 2022, and the leadership election was won by Liz Truss. She announced her resignation as party leader and prime minister on 20 October after the shortest substantive premiership in British history. Sunak assumed the premiership on 25 October 2022. The Conservative Party lost over 1,000 councillors at the 2023 local elections, while the Labour Party and the Liberal Democrats made significant gains. The Conservatives faced further losses in the 2024 local elections. The Conservative Party saw a decrease in their opinion polling. A record number of Conservative MPs decided not to stand again for election.
The SNP also changed leader a number of times, from Nicola Sturgeon (2014–2023) to Humza Yousaf (2023–2024) to John Swinney from 6 May 2024. Sturgeon had received heavier criticism for her positions on gender reforms and resigned the leadership of the SNP, while Yousaf resigned the leadership of the SNP amid a government crisis following his termination of a power-sharing agreement with the Scottish Greens. Jeffrey Donaldson was leader of the DUP from 2021, but resigned 29 March 2024 after being charged with historical sex offenc