Germinal centers or germinal centres (GCs) are transiently formed structures within B  cell zone (follicles) in secondary lymphoid organs – lymph nodes, ileal Peyer's patches, and the spleen – where mature B cells are activated, proliferate, differentiate, and mutate their antibody genes (through somatic hypermutation aimed at achieving higher affinity) during a normal immune response; most of the germinal center B cells (BGC) are removed by tingible body macrophages. There are several key differences between naive B cells and GC B cells, including level of proliferative activity, size, metabolic activity and energy production. The B cells develop dynamically after the activation of follicular B cells by T-dependent antigen. The initiation of germinal center formation involves the interaction between B and T cells in the interfollicular area of the lymph node, CD40-CD40L ligation, NF-kB signaling and expression of IRF4 and BCL6.
GC B cells cycle through the two distinct zones of the germinal center: the light zone and the dark zone. As they undergo rapid and mutative cellular division, B cells of the germinal center's dark zone are known as centroblasts. Once these B cells have stopped proliferating in the dark zone and moved to the light zone, they are known as centrocytes, and are subjected to selection by follicular helper T (TFH) cells in the presence of follicular dendritic cells (FDCs). There are three possible fates for GC B cells that have been positively selected in the light zone: plasma cell, memory B cell or B cell licensed to return to the dark zone for proliferation and mutation. These three fates are achieved via the distinct mechanisms described below.  Germinal centers are an important part of the B cell humoral immune response, acting as central factories for the generation of affinity matured B cells specialized in producing improved antibodies that effectively recognize antigen (e.g. infectious agents), and for the production of long-lived plasma cells and durable memory B cells.


== Naive B cells vs. germinal center B cells ==
There are several key differences between naive B cells and GC B cells. Naive B cells do not undergo lots of cell division. On the other hand, B cells in GC tend to divide rapidly and frequently, and they can have cell cycles as short as only five hours. As a result of their highly proliferative quality, GC B cells are larger in size and are more metabolically active, as compared to naive B cells. Although GC B cells have a greater energy demand than naive B cells, they mainly produce energy by the process of fatty acid oxidation, while naive B cells depend on glycolysis.


== Germinal center initiation ==
Germinal centers are initiated in the B cell follicle of the lymph node. Following activation of naive B cells in the lymph node follicles, the B cells migrate to the interfollicular areas so that they can interact with T cells. When the B and T cells interact, the antigen-specific T cell receptors bind the antigen + MHC presented by the B cells. Additionally, the T cells are able to help the B cells by the interaction of the T cell CD40 ligand with the B cell CD40 molecule, which causes a signaling cascade that is beneficial for the survival and proliferation of B cells. B cell receptor activation results in the activation of the NF-kB signaling pathway, which is essential for the initiation of the germinal center reaction. Specifically, the expression of IRF4 and BCL6 transcription factors are both required for germinal center development and regulated by NF-kB signaling. For example, BCL6 controls the location of B cells in the lymph node and allows them to have a higher tolerance to DNA damage, thus promoting the proliferation of GC B cells. All B cells begin by co-expressing antibodies that have IgM and IgD constant regions, but they are later able to exchange these constant regions for IgA, IgG or IgE constant regions and express antibodies of a different class type via clas