Ghostbusters: Frozen Empire is a 2024 American supernatural comedy film directed by Gil Kenan from a screenplay he co-wrote with Jason Reitman. It is the sequel to Ghostbusters: Afterlife (2021), the fourth mainline installment, and the fifth film overall in the Ghostbusters franchise. The film stars Paul Rudd, Carrie Coon, Finn Wolfhard, Mckenna Grace, Celeste O'Connor, and Logan Kim reprising their roles from Afterlife, alongside Bill Murray, Dan Aykroyd, Ernie Hudson, Annie Potts, and William Atherton reprising their characters from the earlier films. Kumail Nanjiani, Patton Oswalt, Emily Alyn Lind, and James Acaster also join the cast. Set three years after the events of Afterlife, the veteran Ghostbusters must join forces with their new recruits to save the world from a death-chilling god in New York City who seeks to build a spectral army.
Following the success of Afterlife, Sony Pictures announced the sequel in April 2022, with Reitman returning as director. Co-writer and executive producer Kenan later took over as director that December, with Reitman staying on as a co-writer and co-producer. That same month, Rudd, Coon, Grace, Wolfhard, O'Connor, Kim, Murray, Aykroyd, Hudson, Potts and Atherton were all confirmed to reprise their roles. New cast members including Nanjiani, Oswalt, Lind and Acaster were announced in March 2023, with principal photography commencing that month and wrapping in June. Dario Marianelli was hired to compose the film's score, replacing Afterlife composer Rob Simonsen. This is the first film in the Ghostbusters franchise to be released following the death of the franchise's co-creator and Jason Reitman's father Ivan Reitman, who posthumously receives credit as a producer alongside his son and Jason Blumenfeld. The film is dedicated to Reitman's memory and celebrates the 40th anniversary of the first film.
Ghostbusters: Frozen Empire had its world premiere at the AMC 13 Theater at Lincoln Square in New York City on March 14, 2024, and was released in the United States on March 22, by Sony Pictures Releasing under its Columbia Pictures label.  The film received mixed reviews from critics, but generally positive feedback from audiences, and has grossed over $200 million worldwide, making it the ninth-highest-grossing film of 2024.


== Plot ==
Three years after the events in Summerville, Oklahoma,  Callie Spengler, her boyfriend Gary Grooberson, her children Trevor and Phoebe, and their close friends Lucky Domingo and Podcast, relocate to New York City to aid Winston Zeddemore and Ray Stantz in reestablishing the Ghostbusters. After the group captures a ghost in Hell's Kitchen, Walter Peck, the Ghostbusters' long-time opponent, threatens to close them down with his authority as mayor. To appease him, Callie removes underage Phoebe from the team. Upset, Phoebe attempts to control her emotions by playing chess in a nearby park, where she encounters and befriends Melody, the ghost of a teenage girl who died in a fire.
Meanwhile, Ray and Podcast are collecting cursed objects for examination. Nadeem Razmaadi visits and sells them a strange brass orb with ritual markings inherited from his grandmother. Ray suspects it is an apotropaic trap. When he tests its PKE levels, the orb immediately emits broad-spectrum telekinetic energy. A frosty wave travels from the orb to the Ghostbusters' firehouse headquarters and damages the ecto-containment unit, which is dangerously near capacity. Winston takes the orb to his privately owned paranormal research center, run by Dr. Lars Pinfield. Using an experimental extraction device, Lars is unable to extract any spiritual energy from the orb. To learn more, he joins Trevor and Lucky to see Nadeem, who reveals that the orb was kept hidden by his grandmother within a brass-lined chamber. Peter Venkman, brought in to help, discovers Nadeem has latent pyrokinetic powers. 
Meanwhile, Ray, accompanied by Phoebe and Podcast, visits Dr. Hubert Wartzki, a New York Public Libr