Jelena Noura "Gigi" Hadid ( JEE-jee hə-DEED; born April 23, 1995) is an American fashion model and television personality. In 2016, she was named International Model of the Year by the British Fashion Council. Throughout her career, Hadid has made at least 50 appearances in international Vogue. Models.com ranks her as one of the "New Supers." Since 2017, Hadid has been one of the highest-paid models in the world, earning $20 million.
Born in Los Angeles, she began her career as a child model for Baby Guess. She signed to IMG Models in 2013 and made her New York Fashion Week debut the next year. Hadid has appeared in numerous high fashion campaigns and editorials, and is a spokesmodel for Maybelline.


== Early life ==
Jelena Noura Hadid was born on April 23, 1995, in Los Angeles, California, to Palestinian-American real-estate developer Mohamed Hadid and Dutch-American former model Yolanda Hadid (née van den Herik). Through her father, she claims descent from Zahir Al-Umar, Prince of Nazareth and Sheik of Galilee. Her younger sister, Bella, and younger brother, Anwar, are also models. Additionally, she has two older paternal half-sisters, Marielle and Alana. She and her siblings were raised on a ranch in Santa Barbara. The family moved to Beverly Hills after ten years. Hadid has stated that "Gigi" was a childhood nickname that was also used by her mother while growing up in the Netherlands. She began using it in school to avoid confusion with a girl in her class named "Helena".
In 2013, Hadid graduated from Malibu High School, where she was captain of the varsity volleyball team, as well as an equestrian. After high school, she moved to New York City to study criminal psychology at The New School. She suspended her studies to focus on her modeling career.


== Career ==


=== 1997–2012: Early work ===
Hadid's modeling career began when she was two years old, after Guess co-founder Paul Marciano discovered her. She appeared in Baby Guess ads before stopping to concentrate on school. She returned to modeling in 2011 and then resumed working with Marciano, becoming the face of a 2012 Guess campaign. As an adult, she has shot three campaigns with Guess.


=== 2013–2016: Breakthrough ===
After signing to IMG Models in 2013, Hadid made her New York Fashion Week debut in February 2014, walking for Desigual. In the same month, she made a high fashion break, appearing on the cover of Carine Roitfeld's CR Fashion Book. On July 15, 2014, she starred alongside actor and model Patrick Schwarzenegger in designer Tom Ford's Eyewear autumn/winter campaign. She co-hosted the Daily Front Row's Fashion Media Awards event held in New York City on September 5, 2014. She has also starred in campaigns for Tom Ford F/W 2014, Tom Ford Velvet Orchard Fragrance and Tom Ford Beauty 2014. She was featured on the cover of Galore magazine in 2014.

Hadid appeared in the 2015 Pirelli Calendar. Also in 2015, she was the brand ambassador for Australian fashion swimwear label Seafolly. In January 2015, she was named the Daily Front Row's Model of the Year and a Maybelline brand ambassador. In March 2015, she and her then-boyfriend Cody Simpson were featured as a part of fashion photographer Mario Testino's project "Towel Series." By May 2015, she had walked for designers Marc Jacobs, Chanel, Michael Kors, Jean Paul Gaultier, and Max Mara. She appeared in the music video for Taylor Swift's song "Bad Blood", released the same month. Hadid starred in another music video for Scottish DJ Calvin Harris's song "How Deep Is Your Love" released in August the same year. She has made several appearances alongside her sister Bella. In December 2015, she made her first appearance at the Victoria's Secret Fashion Show.
Hadid has appeared on the covers of Vogue (United States, Paris, Italy, Britain, Japan, Spain, Australia, Brazil, the Netherlands, Germany, China), Schön!, Numéro, Allure, W Magazine and Teen Vogue, as well as The Wall Street Journal, Elle (Canada), Dazed and 