Girl 6 is a 1996 American black comedy film produced and directed by Spike Lee. The film stars Theresa Randle, Isaiah Washington, and Lee. Suzan-Lori Parks wrote the screenplay, making it the first film directed by Lee that he did not also write. Directors Quentin Tarantino and Ron Silver make cameo appearances as film directors at a pair of interesting auditions.
The accompanying soundtrack is composed entirely of songs written by Prince. The film was screened in the Un Certain Regard section of the 1996 Cannes Film Festival.


== Plot ==
Judy, a young and timid African-American aspiring actress living in New York City, attends an audition with Quentin Tarantino for what he describes as "the greatest romantic, African-American film ever made". Judy grows apprehensive when asked to expose her breasts, as the role requires nudity. She reluctantly complies, but feeling uneasy, she storms out of the audition.
Afterwards, Judy's agent Murray, having worked hard to get her an audition with such a prestigious director, furiously drops her from his roster of clients. Her melodramatic acting coach also criticizes her apathy towards her acting art and the entertainment industry overall, insisting that Judy should have simply followed Tarantino's directions. This, coupled with Judy's financial issues preventing her from paying her coach for her services, results in Judy being dropped from her roster of clients as well.
Now unable to secure regular acting work, Judy tries various jobs. She comes across newspaper classified advertisements for a "friendly phone line" and another with the headline "mo' money, mo' money, mo' money", circling both. At a call center specializing in customer service and phone sex, Judy has an interview with Lil, who is assertive but friendly. Judy then attends interviews with other phone sex companies, including one run by a stripper, who offers her the opportunity to work unrestricted in her own home. However, the job would require her to have own private telephone line, which she currently does not have. She decides to keep this opportunity in mind for future reference.
Ultimately, Lil hires Judy as a phone sex operator at the call center. During orientation, Lil explains that although most girls on the team are African-American, they should always pretend to be Caucasian, unless the caller requests otherwise. Under the moniker "Girl 6", Judy immediately settles into her new job. Her sports memorabilia-obsessed cousin and best friend Jimmy, who lives in the same apartment complex as her, worries that her new job might distract her from her acting career. While running errands, Judy occasionally sees her kleptomaniac ex-husband, explaining her current occupation.
Thanks to her new job, Judy has become more confident and uninhibited. She bonds with "Bob Regular", a caller from Arizona who requests her specifically; Judy adopts the nickname "Lovely" especially for him. Unlike other callers, Bob has friendly, platonic conversations with her, mostly about his ailing mother. When Bob tells Judy he is visiting New York on business, they agree to meet in person at Coney Island during her lunch break. As Judy anxiously waits for Bob, a man walks past her; believing the man to be Bob, she calls out to him, but he does not respond. Despondent, Judy leaves.
Shortly after returning to work, Judy receives a disturbing call from a verbally abusive man. Lil, monitoring her call, disconnects him and reminds her to be more careful with the men that call in. Nevertheless, the man reconnects to Judy's line, further harassing her. Judy's job gradually begins to affect her mental health. Noticing Judy's exhaustion, Lil places her on leave so she can rest. Judy, however, now able to obtain a private line, decides to continue her phone sex career at home. She devotes herself fully to her job, ignoring Jimmy's and her ex-husband's attempts to contact her.
One night, Judy engages in a conversation with a sadistic caller who discusses 