The Glass Bottom Boat is a 1966 American romantic spy comedy film directed by Frank Tashlin and starring Doris Day, Rod Taylor, and Arthur Godfrey, with John McGiver, Paul Lynde, Edward Andrews, Eric Fleming, Dom DeLuise, and Dick Martin. It is also known as The Spy in Lace Panties.


== Plot ==
Axel Nordstrom manages a glass-bottom boat tourist operation in the waters of Santa Catalina Island, California. His widowed daughter, Jennifer Nelson, occasionally helps by donning a mermaid costume and swimming underneath his boat for the passengers' amusement.
One day, Jennifer meets Bruce Templeton when his fishing hook accidentally snags her costume. He reels in the bottom half, leaving the irate Jennifer floating in the water bottomless. She later has a run-in with Bruce at her new place of employment, an aerospace research company in Long Beach, where she works in public relations. After discovering that Templeton is the president of the company, she embarrassedly apologizes to him; he has taken a liking to her.
Bruce's company has created the GISMO, a gravitation control device which the U.S. Air Force plans to put into orbit in a few weeks and whose secret formula is sought after by the Soviet Union. Bruce hires Jennifer for a new full-time assignment: to write his life story, while he works on GISMO. His real purpose is to win her affections. At his home, she meets  Julius Pritter, an electronics technician who is installing a Hi-Fi system there, and Edgar Hill, a CIA agent making sure the GISMO project is securely handled. When left alone in a room, Julius starts searching for information regarding GISMO. He photographs a cryptic note written by Bruce while brainstorming ideas about how to win Jennifer's affection. Julius transfers the photos to his handler.
Bruce drives Jennifer to Catalina. His remote-controlled boat malfunctions, throwing Bruce out and landing in a parking lot with Jennifer. After Bruce and Jennifer spend an evening with Axel and his wife, Jennifer's feelings for Bruce deepen.
Bruce is summoned to a meeting with Hill, security guard Homer Cripps and PR executive Zack Molloy. Hill reveals that secret information is leaking, e.g. the note that Julius had photographed. Cripps is very suspicious of Jennifer because of several things he had noticed about her: She dials the same telephone number several times every day, counts the rings and then hangs up with the words "that's enough for now, Vladimir;" she burns papers alone late at night in the office; and she has a shortwave antenna installed in her home. There are innocent explanations for all of these things, which none of the people in the meeting know about: Vladimir is her dog, who gets his exercise by running through the house barking whenever he hears the phone ring. Jennifer had read a note in the office which explained that old documents should be burned so that they cannot be stolen. And she uses her shortwave antenna to communicate with Axel. Bruce explains that the two copies of the formula are stored in voice-activated safes. Bruce begins to have some doubts regarding Jennifer, imagining her as a spy. Air Force General Wallace Bleecker later arrives to watch over the GISMO project.
Julius is confronted by his handler for only providing useless or publicly known information and is pressured into spying at a party which will be held by Bruce the next day. Cripps in turn spies on Jennifer, overhearing her talking to her father and misunderstanding her end of the conversation as more proof of her involvement in espionage.
At the party, Jennifer declares her love for Bruce. They plan to spend the night together, but Bruce is again called away to a meeting with Hill, Cripps, Molloy and Bleecker where they discuss the suspicions regarding Jennifer. When she picks up the phone to call Vladimir again, she is able to listen in on the discussion. She is furious at them for suspecting her of wrongdoing. And even though Bruce defends her and believes in her 