The second season of the American satirical superhero television series The Boys, the first series in the franchise based on the comic book series of the same name written by Garth Ennis and Darick Robertson, was developed for television by American writer and television producer Eric Kripke. The season was produced by Sony Pictures Television in association with Point Grey Pictures, Original Film, Kripke Enterprises, Kickstart Entertainment and KFL Nightsky Productions.
The show's second season stars Karl Urban, Jack Quaid, Antony Starr, Erin Moriarty, Dominique McElligott, Jessie T. Usher, Laz Alonso, Chace Crawford, Tomer Kapon, Karen Fukuhara, Nathan Mitchell, Colby Minifie and Aya Cash. The story continues the conflict between the two groups with the eponymous Boys, now with the aid of Starlight continuing their efforts to defeat Vought despite being wanted by the government. The conflict is worsened when Butcher learns that Becca is still alive and she is being held captive by Vought with a superpowered son fathered by Homelander. Stormfront, a new superhero with a secret past, joins the Seven and subtly promotes her message throughout the world, with the hopes of convincing an unwitting Homelander to lead Supes to world domination.
The season premiered on the streaming service Amazon Prime Video on September 4, 2020, with its first three episodes. The remaining five episodes were released weekly until October 9, 2020, in contrast the release of the previous season which premiered in a single day. The season received record viewership for Amazon Prime and critical acclaim, with high praise towards the humor, themes, screenplay, storyline, and performances, especially Urban, Starr, and Cash, becoming the best reviewed superhero show of the year. It received multiple accolades, including a nomination for Outstanding Drama Series at the 73rd Primetime Emmy Awards. On July 23, 2020, the series was renewed for a third season and several spin-offs, forming a franchise.


== Episodes ==


== Cast and characters ==


=== Cameos ===
Seth Rogen, Chris Hansen, Maria Menounos, Greg Grunberg, Nancy O'Dell, Katie Couric, Christopher Lennertz, and Thomas Roberts made cameo appearances, with Rogen making a cameo appearance as himself in an interview while Hansen appears as a news reporter in the episode "The Big Ride", Gunberg portraying a character for a fictional film within the series while O'Dell and Couric appearing as a reporter and the Deep's interviewer for the episode "We Gotta Go Now" respectively, Menounos appearing as Homelander's and Queen Maeve's interviewer for the episodes "Nothing Like It in the World" and "We Gotta Go Now", Lennertz portraying as a man singing a demo for A-Train's song in the episode "The Bloody Doors Off", and Roberts appearing as a news reporter in the episode's "Over the Hill with the Swords of a Thousand Men" and "What I Know". Greg Zajac, Anthony Lake, and Dylan Moscovitch also make cameo appearances for the fictional film within the series as pornographic impersonators of Homelander, Jack from Jupiter, and the Deep for the episode "Butcher, Baker, Candlestick Maker". Kym Wyatt McKenzie and Birgitte Solem appear as actors playing Butcher and Stillwell in a reenactment of the latter's death for the episode "The Big Ride".


== Production ==


=== Development ===
The television rights for the adaptation of Garth Ennis comic book series were passed to Amazon, after the original network that picked the series Cinemax was unable to move forward with the production due to budget issues. It was hoped that the series would appeal the audience that would give the chance to the company's streaming service Amazon Prime Video to finally have a big genre drama hit show with the size of series Game of Thrones, The Walking Dead and Stranger Things. The Boys showrunner Eric Kripke was planning at the moment to give the series a five-season run as he considered that the story and ideas he was planning would be eno