Goldfinger is a 1964 spy film and the third instalment in the James Bond series produced by Eon Productions, starring Sean Connery as the fictional MI6 agent James Bond. It is based on the 1959 novel of the same name by Ian Fleming. The film also stars Honor Blackman, Gert Fröbe and Shirley Eaton. Goldfinger was produced by Albert R. Broccoli and Harry Saltzman. The film was the first of four Bond films directed by Guy Hamilton.
The film's plot has Bond investigating gold smuggling by gold magnate Auric Goldfinger and eventually uncovering Goldfinger's plans to contaminate the United States Bullion Depository at Fort Knox. Goldfinger was the first Bond blockbuster, with a budget equal to that of the two preceding films combined. Principal photography took place from January to July 1964 in the United Kingdom, Switzerland and the United States.
Goldfinger was heralded as the film in the franchise where James Bond "comes into focus". Many elements introduced in it appeared in many of the later James Bond films, such as the extensive use of technology and gadgets by Bond, an extensive pre-credits sequence that stood largely alone from the main plot, multiple foreign locales and tongue-in-cheek humour. The film's release led to a number of promotional licensed tie-in items, including a toy Aston Martin DB5 car from Corgi Toys, which became the biggest selling toy of 1964, and an image of gold-painted Eaton on the cover of Life. 
Goldfinger was the first Bond film to win an Academy Award (for Best Sound Editing) and opened to largely favorable critical reception. The film was a financial success, recouping its budget in two weeks and grossing over $120 million worldwide. In 1999, it was ranked No. 70 on the BFI Top 100 British films list compiled by the British Film Institute.


== Plot ==

MI6 agent James Bond destroys a drug laboratory and electrocutes an unnamed antagonist in the bath in Latin America. Bond heads to Miami Beach, where his superior M via CIA agent Felix Leiter directs Bond to observe bullion dealer Auric Goldfinger at the hotel in Miami Beach. Bond discovers Goldfinger cheating at a high-stakes gin rummy game, aided remotely by his employee Jill Masterson. Bond interrupts Jill and blackmails Goldfinger into losing. After a night with Jill, Bond is knocked out by Goldfinger's Korean manservant Oddjob. Bond awakens to find Jill covered in gold paint, dead from "skin suffocation".
In London, M tasks Bond with determining how Goldfinger smuggles gold internationally. Q supplies Bond with a modified Aston Martin DB5 and two tracking devices. Bond plays a round of golf with Goldfinger at his country club in Kent, wagering a bar of recovered Nazi gold supplied to him by the Bank of England. Goldfinger attempts to cheat, but Bond tricks him into losing the match. Goldfinger warns Bond against interfering in his affairs and his Korean friend Oddjob demonstrates his formidable strength. Bond trails Goldfinger to Switzerland and meets Jill's sister Tilly, who tries to assassinate Goldfinger. 
Bond sneaks into Goldfinger's refinery and overhears him telling a Chinese nuclear physicist Ling that he incorporates gold into the bodywork of his Rolls-Royce Phantom III to smuggle out of England. Bond overhears Goldfinger mention "Operation Grand Slam" and encounters Tilly, who again tries to kill Goldfinger. An alarm is tripped and Oddjob kills Tilly with his steel-rimmed hat. Bond is captured and strapped to a table with an overhead industrial laser, the beam advancing toward his crotch. Bond lies to Goldfinger that MI6 knows about Operation Grand Slam and Goldfinger spares his life so MI6 can believe that Bond is safe. Pussy Galore, a pilot, flies the captive Bond to Goldfinger's stud farm near Lexington, Kentucky in a private jet. 
Once there, Bond escapes his cell and witnesses Goldfinger's meeting with American mafiosi, who have supplied materials needed for Operation Grand Slam. Goldfinger reveals the plan is to breach the U