An Extremely Goofy Movie is a 2000 animated comedy film distributed by Walt Disney Home Video, produced by Walt Disney Television Animation, and directed by Douglas McCarthy. It is a standalone sequel to the 1995 film A Goofy Movie and the finale to the television series Goof Troop, in which Max Goof goes to college and believes he will not have to deal with his father, Goofy, until he loses his job and enrolls there to receive the degree he never received years ago in order to have another go. Meanwhile, Max and his friends compete in the College X Games, unaware of the reason why the school's top fraternity has a dynasty in the competition. This sequel quietly reduces the themes that were heavily exploited in the predecessor.
The film was released on Blu-ray as a Disney Movie Club exclusive alongside A Goofy Movie on April 23, 2019.


== Plot ==
Now 18 years old, Max Goof goes off to college with his friends P.J. and Bobby Zimuruski. Experiencing empty nest syndrome as a result, his father, Goofy, loses his job at the local toy factory after getting distracted and causing an accident. At the unemployment office, Goofy is told that he needs a degree to get another job since he did not finish college in the 1970s. He decides to go back to college to earn his missing credits.
Meanwhile, Max and his friends meet Bradley Uppercrust III, the conceited leader of the Gamma Mu Mu fraternity and a veteran skateboarder. Bradley is impressed by Max's skateboarding talent and invites him to join the Gammas and take part in the college's X Games. Max declines the offer due to the condition that he cannot bring his friends along. Following a skirmish, the two parties place a bet in which the loser becomes the other group's towel boy. To Max's horror, Goofy begins attending the same college and interrupts the group's downtime with chores. Max decides to distract his father by introducing him to the college librarian, Sylvia Marpole, with whom he has much in common; they subsequently confirm their relationship at a disco-themed dance. Goofy accidentally impresses Bradley with his clumsy attempt at skateboarding and is invited to join the Gammas, which he accepts upon Max's encouragement.
During the first qualifiers for the X Games, Bradley discreetly blinds Max with a pocket mirror during his performance and installs a rocket booster on Goofy's skateboard. Goofy beats Max and his team barely makes the semi-finals. Eventually, Max lashes out at Goofy, telling him to stay out of his life and storms off in anger. A depressed Goofy fails his first midterm exam and misses a date with Sylvia. Returning home, Goofy is inadvertently inspired by his neighbor, Pete to regain his focus. Goofy goes back to college and reconciles with Sylvia, who helps him ace the rest of his exams. As Goofy decides to quit the Gammas (not before they literally kick him out), he overhears the group plotting to cheat for the semi-finals. He tries warning Max, who is still angry with him and refuses to listen.
At the semi-finals, all teams but Max's and the Gammas' are eliminated. Just before the final triathlon, Bradley eliminates P.J. from the games, leaving Max's team short one player and risking their forfeiture. This spurs Max to recruit and apologize to Goofy for shunning him via the jumbotron; Goofy narrowly joins Max's team with seconds to spare before they can be eliminated. Throughout the race, Bradley and his team attempt to hinder Max's team, but fail. Although Goofy manages to temporarily knock out Bradley with a horseshoe in the final section of the race, his final trick results in his second-in-command, Tank, and Max getting trapped underneath the burning wreckage of a logo. As Bradley passes them by, Max and Goofy rescue Tank, who assists Max in winning the race. Bradley concedes his defeat and tells Max he will go through with their bet. However, Max calls off the bet, allowing a vengeful Tank to attack Bradley for leaving him to die, flinging him into the