The Goonies is a 1985 American adventure comedy film directed and co-produced by Richard Donner from a screenplay by Chris Columbus based on a story by Steven Spielberg and starring Sean Astin, Josh Brolin, Jeff Cohen, Corey Feldman, Kerri Green, Martha Plimpton, and Ke Huy Quan, with supporting roles done by John Matuszak, Anne Ramsey, Robert Davi, Joe Pantoliano and Mary Ellen Trainor. In the film, a group of kids who live in the "Goon Docks" neighborhood of Astoria, Oregon, attempt to save their homes from foreclosure and, in doing so, they discover an old treasure map that takes them on an adventure to unearth the long-lost fortune of One-Eyed Willy, a legendary 17th-century pirate. During the adventure, they are pursued by a family of criminals who want the treasure for themselves.
The film was produced by Spielberg's Amblin Entertainment and released by Warner Bros. theatrically on June 7, 1985, in the United States. The film grossed $125 million worldwide on a budget of $19 million and has since become a cult film. In 2017, the film was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant".


== Plot ==
Facing foreclosure of their homes in the "Goon Docks" area of Astoria, Oregon to an expanding country club, a group of kids who call themselves "the Goonies"—Mike “Mikey” Walsh, Richard “Data” Wang, Clark "Mouth" Devereaux, and Lawrence “Chunk” Cohen—gather for a final weekend together.
Rummaging through Mikey's attic, they come across a 1632 doubloon and an old treasure map purporting to lead to the treasure of legendary pirate "One-Eyed Willy", believed to be located somewhere nearby and considered by Mikey to be the original Goonie. Seeing the treasure as their last chance to save their homes, the kids overpower and bind Mikey's older brother, Brandon “Brand” Walsh, to get past him and make their way to an abandoned restaurant on the coast that coincides with the map. Brand soon follows alongside Andrea “Andy” Carmichael, a cheerleader with a crush on him; and her best friend Stephanie “Stef” Steinbrenner, a tomboy.
The group eventually discovers that the derelict restaurant is a hideout of the Fratelli crime family: Francis, Jake, and their mother. The Goonies find a tunnel in the basement and follow it, but Chunk leaves to alert the police after being locked in the freezer. When Chunk flags down a nearby car to go to the sheriff's station, it turns out to be the Fratellis, who imprison him with their hulking and deformed younger brother Sloth. The Fratellis interrogate Chunk until he reveals where the Goonies have gone and begin pursuit. Chunk is left behind with Sloth, whom he befriends. After Sloth frees them both, Chunk calls the sheriff, who thinks it is another one of Chunk's tall tales. Chunk and Sloth follow the trail of the Fratellis.
The Goonies evade several deadly booby traps along the tunnels, while barely staying ahead of the Fratellis. They finally reach the grotto where Willy's pirate ship, The “Inferno”, is anchored. The group discovers that the ship is filled with treasure, and they start filling their pockets, but Mikey warns them not to take any on a set of scales in front of Willy's skeleton, considering that to be their tribute to him.
As the Goonies are planning their escape, the Fratellis appear and strip them of their haul. The Fratellis start to bind the Goonies' hands and make them walk the plank until Chunk and Sloth arrive and distract the Fratellis long enough for the Goonies to jump overboard and swim to safety. Brand saves Andy from drowning and they kiss. The Fratellis proceed to grab all the treasure they can, including those on Willy's scales, which triggers one last booby trap, causing the grotto to cave in. With Sloth's help, the Goonies and Fratellis barely escape.
The groups emerge on Astoria's beach, where the Goonies reunite with their families and the Fratellis are arr