Gossip is idle talk or rumor, especially about the personal or private affairs of others; the act is also known as dishing or tattling.


== Etymology ==

The word is from Old English godsibb, from god and sibb, the term for the godparents of one's child or the parents of one's godchild, generally very close friends. In the 16th century, the word assumed the meaning of a person, mostly a woman, one who delights in idle talk, a newsmonger, a tattler. In the early 19th century, the term was extended from the talker to the conversation of such persons. The verb to gossip, meaning "to be a gossip", first appears in Shakespeare.
The term originates from the bedroom at the time of childbirth. Giving birth used to be a social event exclusively attended by women. The pregnant woman's female relatives and neighbours would congregate and idly converse. Over time, gossip came to mean talk of others.


== Functions ==

Gossip can:

reinforce – or punish the lack of – morality and accountability
reveal passive aggression, isolating and harming others
build and maintain a sense of community with shared interests, information, and values
begin a courtship that helps one find their desired mate, by counseling others
provide a peer-to-peer mechanism for disseminating information


== Workplace gossip ==
Mary Gormandy White, a human resource expert, gives the following "signs" for identifying workplace gossip:

Animated people become silent ("Conversations stop when you enter the room")
People begin staring at someone
Workers indulge in inappropriate topics of conversation.
White suggests "five tips ... [to] handle the situation with aplomb:

Rise above the gossip
Understand what causes or fuels the gossip
Do not participate in workplace gossip.
Allow for the gossip to go away on its own
If it persists, "gather facts and seek help."
Peter Vajda identifies gossip as a form of workplace violence, noting that it is "essentially a form of attack." Gossip is thought by many to "empower one person while disempowering another" (Hafen). Accordingly, many companies have formal policies in their employee handbooks against gossip. Sometimes there is room for disagreement on exactly what constitutes unacceptable gossip, since workplace gossip may take the form of offhand remarks about someone's tendencies such as "He always takes a long lunch," or "Don't worry, that's just how she is."
TLK Healthcare cites as examples of gossip, "tattletaling to the boss without intention of furthering a solution or speaking to co-workers about something someone else has done to upset us." Corporate email can be a particularly dangerous method of gossip delivery, as the medium is semi-permanent and messages are easily forwarded to unintended recipients; accordingly, a Mass High Tech article advised employers to instruct employees against using company email networks for gossip. Low self-esteem and a desire to "fit in" are frequently cited as motivations for workplace gossip.
There are five essential functions that gossip has in the workplace (according to DiFonzo & Bordia):

Helps individuals learn social information about other individuals in the organization (often without even having to meet the other individual)
Builds social networks of individuals by bonding co-workers together and affiliating people with each other.
Breaks existing bonds by ostracizing individuals within an organization.
enhances one's social status/power/prestige within the organization.
Inform individuals as to what is considered socially acceptable behavior within the organization.
According to Kurkland and Pelled, workplace gossip can be very serious depending upon the amount of power that the gossiper has over the recipient, which will in turn affect how the gossip is interpreted. There are four types of power that are influenced by gossip:

Coercive: when a gossiper tells negative information about a person, their recipient might believe that the gossiper will also spread negative information 