Grace of My Heart is a 1996 American musical comedy-drama film written and directed by Allison Anders, and starring Illeana Douglas, Matt Dillon, Eric Stoltz, Patsy Kensit and John Turturro. The film charts the fictional music career of Denise Waverly, an aspiring singer who writes for other artists in the pop music world of the mid-1960s. It premiered at the 1996 Toronto International Film Festival and went into limited release on September 13, 1996.
The soundtrack features artists Burt Bacharach, Elvis Costello, Joni Mitchell, Gerry Goffin and Jill Sobule, replicating the musical style that emerged from the Brill Building, New York City's  music factory in the heyday of girl groups and "pre-fab" acts like The Monkees.


== Plot ==
In 1958, Philadelphia steel heiress Edna Buxton enters and wins a talent contest. When she attempts to record a demo, a studio producer tells her that girl singers are not currently getting signed and record companies are even trying to get rid of the ones on their rosters. However, when Edna tells him that she wrote the song she wants to record, he is impressed enough to direct her to producer Joel Milner, who takes her under his wing, renames her "Denise Waverly" and invents a blue-collar persona for her. Milner reworks her song for a male doo-wop group, the Stylettes, as male groups are far more marketable, and the song becomes a hit.
Denise moves to New York City and becomes a songwriter in the Brill Building. At a party, she meets the arrogant songwriter Howard Caszatt, and despite an awkward initial meeting, they begin a relationship. Denise offers to write a song specifically for her three girlfriends, which culminates in Joel auditioning the girls and creating the girl group the Luminaries. Howard and Denise also begin writing together and eventually get married and have a child. They pen a song called "Unwanted Number," based on a young girl's unwanted pregnancy. Although it is banned from radio, it attracts the attention of prominent and influential disc jockey John Murray, who, despite the negative attention around the song, credits Denise with sparking the girl group craze.
Joel recruits the beautiful English songwriter Cheryl Steed, who immediately catches Howard's eye, and initially, Denise's disdain. Cheryl diffuses Denise's suspicion by informing her that she already has a songwriting partner – her husband Matthew. Joel tasks Denise and Cheryl with writing a song for the ingénue singer Kelly Porter. The two women bond over the realization that the young songstress is in a closeted lesbian relationship with her roommate Marion. They write the coded song "My Secret Love" for Kelly, which becomes a hit.
Denise's relationship with Howard becomes strained due to his philandering with other women. When she learns she is pregnant with Howard's second baby, Cheryl convinces her to see an obstetrician, who safely performs an illegal abortion. Denise and Cheryl then become close friends and Denise eventually breaks up with Howard.
In 1966, Milner offers to send Denise to the studio to sing for herself. As an added incentive, he offers the production assistance of Jay Phillips, the frontman of California rock group the Riptides, to produce her single. Although initially hesitant as she says she finds the whole "surf and turf" sound laughable, she writes and sings the song "God Give Me Strength" and is delighted by Jay's skillful orchestral arrangement. The record she puts out with him, however, is a commercial failure. Between the loss suffered by her foundering single and the advent of the British Invasion, Milner's fortunes are depleted. Denise blames herself for making the song too personal and bankrupting Joel. He tells her she did more for him than she realized and that it was time for them both to move on.
Denise and Jay become a couple and resettle in California. Jay treats Denise's daughter Luna as his own, but he is reclusive and a user of recreational drugs like marijuana and peyote.