The Guardian Angels is a non-profit international volunteer organization with the goal of unarmed crime prevention. The Guardian Angels organization was founded on February 13, 1979, in New York City by Curtis Sliwa. Since then, it has expanded to more than 130 cities and 13 countries worldwide.
Sliwa originally created the Guardian Angels to combat widespread violence and crime on the New York City Subway system. The organization originally trained members to make citizen's arrests for violent crimes. They patrolled streets and neighborhoods without involving police or any outside authority but also provided educational programs for schools and businesses.


== History ==

In the beginning, New York City Mayor Ed Koch publicly opposed the group. Over the years, the controversy has diminished. As citizen involvement and outreach have increased, there has been less public opposition to the group by administration officials. Koch later reversed his stance on the organization, and former New York City Mayors Rudy Giuliani and Michael Bloomberg have publicly supported the group.


== Rules and activities ==
The original and main Guardian Angels activity is "safety patrol" in which members walk the streets or ride transit. Guardian Angels must be in uniform to represent the organization. They can be identified by their red berets and red jackets, or white T-shirts with the red Guardian Angels logo of an eye inside a pyramid on a winged shield.
Chapters operate similarly to franchise networks supporting one another regionally under standard rules, regulations, and training. The Guardian Angels state that it is an equal opportunity organization that encourages diversity.
The organization accepts volunteers with no recent or serious criminal record and are not members of a gang or racial-hate group. To join the safety patrol program, members must be at least 16 years old; youth programs for younger applicants are offered. Safety Patrol members are prohibited from carrying weapons and are physically searched by each other before patrolling. They are trained in first aid, CPR, law, conflict resolution, communication, and basic martial arts. Members are paired up and follow the directions of a patrol leader. If their own or other citizens' lives or health are endangered, they are allowed to do whatever is lawful and necessary.
The Guardian Angels have also begun to include youth programs, teacher programs, disaster response, an Internet safety program called the CyberAngels, and self-defense courses, as well as community outreach program to address issues beyond crime.
The Guardian Angels do not demand or ask for money on the subway.
In the 1980s when they were often seen on the subways, imitators would dress in clothing similar to the Guardian Angels' characteristic dress (including red berets) to impersonate them and solicit money.


=== CyberAngels ===
CyberAngels was founded in 1995 by "Colin Gabriel Hatcher" as an online "neighborhood watch." Originally, the group monitored chat rooms directly with the intent of apprehending sexual predators. Later, the group took what it had learned and changed its focus to educating police, schools, and families about online abuse and cybercrime. In 1998, CyberAngels received a Presidential Service Award. MacSupport.com founder Tony Ricciardi was an early member of the group.


== Training ==

In 2009, at the Angels' 30th-anniversary celebration held in New York City and again in 2010 at the World Conference held in San Francisco, founder Curtis Sliwa announced the plan to develop Internet-based training for the organization.
One of the primary goals of the training is to reduce the liability potential for members and for the organization during their physical interventions of crime deterrence.
At the international conference held in Chicago, the Raven Method, developed by member Fernan Vargas, was adopted as the official defensive tactics training system for the organization. This change was sign