Gumby: The Movie (referred to as its on-screen title Gumby 1) is a 1995 American stop-motion surrealist claymation adventure comedy film featuring Gumby. The film is dedicated to Sri Sathya Sai Baba.
The film was released on October 4, 1995, and received generally negative reviews from critics; it went on to become a box-office flop, earning $57,100 against its $2.8 million budget at the U.S. box office, although much of its financial failure can be attributed to its very limited theatrical rollout. It has since gained a cult following among fans of the original Gumby.


== Plot ==
When the Blockheads' E-Z Loan company threatens to take away the farms belonging to the small farmers due to being unable to make their loan payments, Gumby and his band The Clayboys decide to have a benefit concert to save the farms. However, the evil Blockheads find out that Gumby's dog, Lowbelly, cries pearls when he sees The Clayboys perform. The Blockheads decide to kidnap Lowbelly and force him to cry pearls (initially unaware that Lowbelly is only crying whenever Gumby changes shapes). After discovering that they need Gumby to extract the pearls, they kidnap Gumby and the Clayboys in order to create robotic clones of them.
With the help of Pokey, Prickle, Goo, fans Tara and Ginger, and talent agent Lucky Claybert, Gumby takes on his robot clone and is still in time for his videotaping session in agreement with Claybert. At a picnic, Gumby announces that he is opening his own farm-centered loan company that will give reasonable loans for its customers. To punish them for their evil deeds, the Blockheads are forced to weed Gumby's garden. After the successful concert, Gumby and Pokey head back to outer-space feeling triumphant knowing that their efforts have saved the farms.


== Cast ==
Dallas McKennon as Gumby
McKennon also voices Professor Kapp: an exuberant scientist with a voice like Ed Wynn; Fatbuckle: a red man with a big belt (his name is a play on "Fatty" Arbuckle); Lucky Claybert: a Groucho-like talent agent who makes a music video entitled "Gumbymania" (although it is officially known as "Take Me Away" in the credits); and Nobuckle: a yellow man with a New Jersey accent
Art Clokey voices Pokey: a talking red horse and Gumby's best friend
Clokey also voices Prickle: a yellow dinosaur with a Mel Blanc–like voice and a Midwestern accent, and Gumbo: Gumby's father
Gloria Clokey voices Goo: a blue flying  mermaid
Manny La Carruba voices Thinbuckle: a blue teenager with a thin belt.
Patti Morse (speaking voice)/Melisa Kary (singing voice) voices Tara: a light blue female and Gumby's love interest
Alice Young voices Ginger: a yellow female and Tara's best friend
Janet MacDuff voices Gumba: Gumby's mom
Bonnie Rudolph voices Lowbelly: the dog who cries pearls every time he sees Gumby change shapes
Rudolph also voices Farm Lady
Ozzie Ahlers voices Radio Announcer
Kirby Coleman is the lead singer for "This Way 'N That"
Anthony McNulty voices Burnzy
David Archer
Lillian Nicol
Rick Warren
Stan Freberg (uncredited)


== Production ==
Production on the film was started in 1988 and completed in 1992. Despite this, Premavision was unable to find a distributor for the film until 1995, when they found a small company named Arrow Releasing (not to be confused with Arrow Films). John R. Dilworth, who would later be known for creating Cartoon Network's Courage the Cowardly Dog, served as the film's animation consultant.
The musical score was composed by Jerry Gerber, who previously worked on the television series, and Marco D'Ambrosio. Additionally, Ozzie Ahlers produced the featured songs "Take Me Away", "Ark Park" and "This Way'n That". The lyrics for "Take Me Away" and "This Way'n That" were written by Gloria Clokey. Ahlers was also responsible for hiring frequent collaborator and Starship guitarist Craig Chaquico to play the electric guitar parts.


== Reception and legacy ==


=== Box office ===
Gumby: The Movie was released on October 4, 1995, by Ar