Gung ho () is an English term, with the current meaning of 'overly enthusiastic or energetic'. It originated during the Second Sino-Japanese War (1937–1945) from a  Chinese term, 工合 (pinyin: gōnghé; lit. 'to work together'), short for Chinese Industrial Cooperatives (Chinese: 工業合作社; pinyin: Gōngyè Hézuòshè).


== Overview ==
The linguist Albert Moe concluded that the term is an "Americanism that is derived from the Chinese, but its several accepted American meanings have no resemblance whatsoever to the recognized meaning in the original language", and that its "various linguistic uses, as they have developed in the United States, have been peculiar to American speech". In Chinese, concludes Moe, "this is neither a slogan nor a battle cry; it is only a name for an organization". 
The term was picked up by United States Marine Corps Major Evans Carlson from his New Zealand friend, Rewi Alley, one of the founders of the Chinese Industrial Cooperatives. Carlson explained in a 1943 interview: "I was trying to build up the same sort of working spirit I had seen in China where all the soldiers dedicated themselves to one idea and worked together to put that idea over. I told the boys about it again and again. I told them of the motto of the Chinese Cooperatives, Gung Ho. It means Work Together — Work in Harmony." 
Carlson used gung ho as a motto during his unconventional command of the 2nd Marine Raider Battalion, leading to other marines adopting the term to mean overly enthusiastic. From there, it spread throughout the U.S. Marine Corps, where it was used as an expression of spirit, and then into American society as a whole when the term was the title of a 1943 war film, Gung Ho!, about the 2nd Raider Battalion's raid on Makin Island in 1942.


== See also ==
History of the cooperative movement in China
Chinese Industrial Cooperatives
List of United States Marine Corps acronyms and expressions


== References ==


== External links ==

"Gung-Ho". Oxford Dictionaries. Archived from the original on 7 July 2012.
"Gung Ho". ChinaPage.com. Archived from the original on 12 May 2008.
Gaines, R.W. "Gung Ho! According to Evans F. Carlson". Gunny G's Globe and Anchor – via Angelfire.
Knodell, Kevin (17 May 2014). "Gung Ho! The Communist Origins of the Marine Corps' Famous Slogan". War Is Boring.