Halloween H20: Twenty Years Later is a 1998 American slasher film directed by Steve Miner, and starring Jamie Lee Curtis, LL Cool J, Adam Arkin, Michelle Williams, Janet Leigh, and Josh Hartnett in his film debut. It is the seventh installment in the Halloween franchise. H20 is a direct sequel to 1978's Halloween and 1981's Halloween II, ignoring the Jamie Lloyd story arc of the previous three installments. It follows a post-traumatic Laurie Strode, who has faked her death in order to go into hiding from her murderous brother, Michael Myers, who finds her working at a private boarding school in California.
Halloween H20 was released in the United States on August 5, 1998. The film received mixed reviews from critics with many saying it was at that point the best of the sequels but still paled compared to the original. It grossed $75 million worldwide against a budget of $17 million, making it the highest-grossing film in the franchise until the release of the 2018 film. A sequel, Halloween: Resurrection, was released four years later in 2002. A remake of the original film would be released in 2007 with a sequel of its own in 2009, and later another trilogy of sequels throughout 2018, 2021 and 2022 that follow only the original film, disregarding all previous entries.


== Plot ==
It has been almost twenty years since Michael Myers escaped from Smith's Grove and returned to his hometown of Haddonfield to kill his long-lost sister, Laurie Strode. After an explosion at Haddonfield Memorial Hospital caused by Dr. Sam Loomis, Michael's body disappeared and was presumed dead.  
On October 29, 1998, Marion Wittington (née Chambers), Loomis' former colleague who took care of him until his death, returns home to the house they shared in Langdon, Illinois, only to find that it has been broken into and discovers that the file on Laurie Strode is missing. Marion seeks help from her teenage neighbor, Jimmy, only to discover that he and his friend, Tony, have been murdered by Michael, before she, too, is killed. Michael drives away in Jimmy's car, as the police arrive on scene. 
In Summer Glen, California, Laurie lives under the identity of "Keri Tate", having faked her death to stay hidden from Michael.  She lives with her son, John, and is the headmistress of Hillcrest Academy, a private boarding school, where she is supported by her secretary, Norma Watson, and guidance counselor Will Brennan, with whom she is in a relationship. Despite the normal life she has built for herself, the traumatic events of her past have caused her to suffer from chronic nightmares as well as becoming an alcoholic, living in fear that her brother will one day find her. Michael, having gotten a flat tire, is forced to steal another vehicle from a woman and her daughter who stop by a highway rest area and inadvertently leaves them both unharmed and stranded. 
Back at the academy, most of the faculty and students are preparing to leave for a trip to Yosemite. Laurie has forbidden John to go, afraid that something bad will happen to him while he is gone. John's girlfriend, Molly Cartwell, is unable to attend as well prompting  fellow couple, Charlie Deveraux and Sarah Wainthrope, to forego the trip so that they can all have a Halloween party on campus. Laurie, following a heated argument with John about how her fears are affecting him, changes her mind about not letting him go on the trip, now afraid that him being around her on Halloween is too dangerous, though he ultimately decides to remain behind with Molly, Charlie, and Sarah, unbeknownst to his mother. 
After most of the teachers and students have departed, Ronny Jones, a security guard who earlier helped John and Charlie sneak out of school, spots Michael's stolen truck parked at the main gate and goes to investigate but is oblivious as Michael sneaks onto the school property. Meanwhile, Laurie reveals her identity to Will and in the process discovers a connection between her age when Michael first came a