A hamlet is a human settlement that is smaller than a town or village. This is often simply an informal description of a smaller settlement or possibly a subdivision or satellite entity to a larger settlement.
Sometimes  a hamlet is defined for official or administrative purposes. In that case, its size relative to a parish or other administrative unit will depend on the administration and region. 
The word and concept of a hamlet can be traced back to Norman England, where the Old French hamelet came to apply to small human settlements.


== Etymology ==
The word comes from Anglo-Norman hamelet, corresponding to Old French hamelet, the diminutive of Old French hamel meaning a little village.  This, in turn, is a diminutive of Old French ham, possibly borrowed from (West Germanic) Franconian languages. It is the equivalent of the modern French hameau, Dutch heem, Frisian hiem, German Heim, Old English hām, and Modern English home.


== By country ==


=== Afghanistan ===
In Afghanistan, the counterpart of the hamlet is the qala (Dari: قلعه, Pashto: کلي) meaning "fort" or "hamlet". The Afghan qala is a fortified group of houses, generally with its own community building such as a mosque, but without its own marketplace. The qala is the smallest type of settlement in Afghan society, outsized by the village (Dari/Pashto: ده), which is larger and includes a commercial area.


=== Canada ===
In Canada's three territories, hamlets are officially designated municipalities. As of January 1, 2010:

Northwest Territories had 11 hamlets, each of which had a population of less than 900 people as of the 2016 census;
Nunavut had 24 hamlets, with populations ranging from 129 to 2,842 as of the 2016 census; and
Yukon had two hamlets, both of which had a population of less than 450 people as of the 2016 census.
In Canada's provinces, hamlets are usually small unincorporated communities within a larger municipality (similar to civil townships in the United States), such as many communities within the single-tier municipalities of Ontario or within Alberta's specialized and rural municipalities.
Canada's two largest hamlets—Fort McMurray (formerly incorporated as a city) and Sherwood Park—are located in Alberta. They each have populations, within their main urban area, in excess of 60,000—well in excess of the 10,000-person threshold that can choose to incorporate as a city in Alberta. The designation of these urban areas as a "hamlet" is simply to enable their residents to participate in the politics of their surrounding counties. As such, these two hamlets have been further designated by the Province of Alberta as urban service areas. An urban service area is recognized as equivalent to a city for the purposes of provincial and federal program delivery and grant eligibility.


=== France ===
A hamlet, French: hameau, is a group of rural dwellings, usually too small to be considered a village. The term Lieu-dit is also applied to hamlets, but this can also refer to uninhabited localities.
During the 18th century, it was fashionable for rich or noble people to create their own hameau in their gardens. This was a group of houses or farms with rustic appearance, but in fact very comfortable. The best known is the Hameau de la Reine built by the queen Marie-Antoinette in the park of the Château de Versailles; also the Hameau de Chantilly built by Louis Joseph, Prince of Condé in Chantilly, Oise.


=== Germany ===
The German word for hamlet is Weiler (German: [ˈva͡ɪlɐ]). A Weiler has, compared to a Dorf (village), no infrastructure (i.e. no inn, no school, no store, no church). The houses and farms of a Weiler can be grouped (in the hills and the mountains) or scattered (more often in the plains). In North West Germany, a group of scattered farms is called Bauerschaft. In a Weiler, there are no street names, the houses are just numbered.
There is no legal definition of a hamlet in Germany. In Bavaria, like in Austria, a Weiler is defined as a settle