Ghajini (pronounced [ɡədʒniː]) is a 2008 Indian Hindi-language action thriller film directed and co-written by A. R. Murugadoss in his Hindi film debut. It stars Aamir Khan, Asin (in her Hindi film debut, reprising her role from original) and Jiah Khan (in her penultimate film role before her death in 2013), with Pradeep Rawat as the titular antagonist. It is a remake of Murugadoss's directorial Tamil-language film of the same name. The film tells about Sanjay Singhania (Khan), a powerful entrepreneur, who suffers from anterograde amnesia after a violent attack on him and his fiancee Kalpana (Asin).
The film's plot was inspired from two films: Memento (2000) and Happy Go Lovely (1951). Khan and Murugadoss co-wrote the film, with Khan suggesting changes to suit a Hindi-language audience.  With the  changes in double role part of main antagonist in Tamil, Hindi Language audiences has tasted only one role of main antagonist.  Allu Aravind, Madhu Mantena and Tagore Madhu jointly acted as the producers; the film was distributed by Geetha Arts. A. R. Rahman composed the film's music.
Released theatrically on 25 December 2008, Ghajini became the highest-grossing Indian film of the year, and the first Bollywood film to cross the ₹100 crore mark domestically, creating the 100 Crore Club. Ghajini's paid preview collections were ₹ 2.7 crore. It went on to become the highest-grossing Indian film of all time, until it was surpassed by Aamir's next, 3 Idiots (2009), the following year and then by Shah Rukh Khan's Chennai Express (2013). Aamir's character was featured in a 3D video game titled Ghajini – The Game, which is based on the film.


== Plot ==
Sunita, a medical student, is investigating the anterograde amnesia case of Sanjay Singhania, the chairman of Air Voice, a telecommunications company. She does so against her professor Dr. Debkumar Mitra's wishes, in spite of Sanjay being under criminal investigation. Sanjay, who loses his memory every 15 minutes, uses a system of photographs, notes, and tattoos on his body to recover his memory and remember his mission of avenging the murder of his fianceé, Kalpana Shetty, who was killed by a criminal kingpin, Ghajini Dharmatma.
Police officer Arjun Yadav, who is investigating a murder that Sanjay committed, knocks Sanjay unconscious in a scuffle at his apartment and finds two diaries in his drawer. He learns that Sanjay, who is a successful entrepreneur, met Kalpana, a struggling model, after he planned on installing an advertising billboard above her apartment. When his agents arrive at Kalpana's shooting site to negotiate with her about it, Kalpana's boss, advertising veteran Satveer Kohli, misinterprets this as a romantic advance and, in view of fame and fortune, encourages Kalpana to accept the overture. Kalpana decides to pose as Sanjay's girlfriend. As soon as Sanjay finds out about the false rumour, he plans to meet Kalpana to confront her but fails, as he starts to like her after seeing her altruistic nature. He poses as Sachin Chauhan, a newcomer model, and lies to Kalpana about himself. Soon, he falls deeper in love with her. At the end of the first diary, on December 31, Sanjay, still playing Sachin, proposes to Kalpana, who taken aback by such a sudden gesture, asks for the night to think over it. He decides that if she would agree, then he would reveal his true identity to her, but if not, then he would quietly walk away from her life as Sachin.
As Arjun starts reading the second diary, Sanjay attacks him and ties him up. Sunita locates the apartment, finds Arjun tied up, and learns of Sanjay's murder plot in his absence. She steals his diaries and frees Arjun. Sanjay suddenly appears. As she and Arjun escape, Arjun is hit by a bus. Sunita then informs Ghajini about the fact that Sanjay is coming to him to kill him. Sanjay finds out about this and goes to attack her at her dormitory, where he is arrested and given a sedative. Ghajini is informed by the police about Sanjay's bel