Harry and the Hendersons is a 1987 American fantasy comedy film directed and produced by William Dear and starring John Lithgow, Melinda Dillon, Don Ameche, David Suchet, Margaret Langrick, Joshua Rudoy, Lainie Kazan, and Kevin Peter Hall. Steven Spielberg served as its uncredited executive producer, while Rick Baker provided the makeup and the creature designs for Harry. The film tells the story of a Seattle family's encounter with the cryptozoological creature Bigfoot, partially inspired by the numerous claims of sightings in the Pacific Northwest, California, and other parts of both the United States and Canada over three centuries. In conjunction with the film's setting, shooting took place at several locations in the Cascade Range of Washington state near Interstate 90 and the town of Index near US 2, as well as Seattle's Wallingford, Ballard and Beacon Hill neighborhoods and other locations in or around Seattle.
Harry and the Hendersons grossed $50 million worldwide. It won an Oscar for Best Makeup at the 60th Academy Awards, and inspired a television spin-off of the same name. In the United Kingdom, the film was originally released as Bigfoot and the Hendersons, though the television series retained the American title. The DVD and all current showings of the film in the UK now refer to the film by its original title.


== Plot ==
Following a camping trip in the nearby Cascade mountains, George Henderson drives home to suburban Seattle with his family when he hits a Bigfoot with his station wagon. Believing it to be dead and the key to fame and fortune, the family straps the creature to the roof of their car. A hunter tracking the creature discovers the Hendersons' damaged license plate.
That night, George goes to examine the Bigfoot and discovers it was alive and has escaped. He finds the creature in the kitchen, having knocked over the refrigerator while looking for food. The family realizes that he is intelligent and friendly, and George decides to return him to the wilderness. Naming the Bigfoot "Harry", George tries to lure him into the station wagon, but Harry becomes upset and runs off.
Saddened, the family attempt to resume their normal lives, but sightings of Harry become more frequent as media fervor heightens. George tries to find Harry and visits the "North American Museum of Anthropology" to speak with Dr. Wallace Wrightwood, a supposed expert on Bigfoot. Giving his phone number to the museum clerk, George resumes his search. The legendary French-Canadian hunter-turned-Bigfoot-tracker, Jacques LaFleur, finds the Henderson household. George follows a Bigfoot sighting into the city while  Harry evades hunters and the police as he attempts to find safety. George saves Harry from LaFleur, who is arrested, and reunites him with the Henderson family.
George invites Dr. Wrightwood to dinner. He urges the Hendersons to give up on Bigfoot as it has destroyed his life but then meets Harry, restoring his enthusiasm. Bailed out of jail, LaFleur travels to the Henderson house. Harry and the Hendersons escape with Dr. Wrightwood in his truck, and LaFleur gives chase. Fleeing to the mountains, George tries to force Harry to leave. Confused and upset, Harry departs, but  LaFleur tracks and attempts to shoot him. Harry subdues LaFleur, and George intervenes when LaFleur attempts to escape. LaFleur gives up the hunt when he realizes that Harry is more than a simple beast.
As the family says goodbye, George tells Harry to take care of himself, to which he replies, "Okay" – revealing he has the ability to learn language. As Harry leaves, three other hiding Bigfoots and one adolescent emerge and disappear into the wilderness with Harry as the Henderson family watches.


== Cast ==


== Music ==
Bruce Broughton composed the film's original score, and co-wrote "Love Lives On" with Barry Mann (music), Cynthia Weil (lyrics) and Will Jennings (lyrics), performed by Joe Cocker over the end credits (in place of Broughton's planned end 