Head Above Water is the sixth studio album by Canadian singer-songwriter Avril Lavigne. It was released on February 15, 2019, through BMG Rights Management. It is Lavigne's first studio release since her self-titled fifth studio album five years prior, marking the longest gap between two of her studio albums, and is her first and only album recorded for the new incarnation of BMG (she was originally signed to the first incarnation of BMG, which later relaunched after Sony’s acquisition of BMG’s former labels.) She assumed an integral role in the album's production and collaborated with several producers including Chad Kroeger, Stephan Moccio, Chris Baseford, Johan Carlsson, Lauren Christy from The Matrix, Ryan Cabrera, Travis Clark of We the Kings, Bonnie McKee, JR Rotem and Mitch Allan among others.
The album draws inspiration from Lavigne's battle with Lyme disease, with her describing the album as an "emotional journey". The title track was released as the lead single from the album in September 2018, followed by "Tell Me It's Over" as the second single in December 2018, "Dumb Blonde" as the third single the week of the album's release, a collaboration with rapper Nicki Minaj and "I Fell in Love with the Devil" as the fourth single in June 2019.
Head Above Water received generally mixed reviews from music critics. While some praised Lavigne's vocal performance, themes and maturity compared to the singer's previous works, some noted the "generic" sound of the album, criticizing the lyrics and production of certain songs. The album debuted at number five on the Billboard Canadian Albums chart, making it Lavigne's sixth album to enter the top ten in Canada. In the United States the album debuted at number thirteen on the Billboard 200 chart. In the United Kingdom the album debuted and peaked at number ten on the UK Albums OCC chart.
In support of the album, Lavigne embarked on the Head Above Water Tour, starting on September 14, 2019 (her first tour in nearly five years following the Avril Lavigne Tour).


== Background and development ==
In December 2014, Lavigne was diagnosed with Lyme disease. According to her, she "sat behind a piano and sang past the pain". The songs on the album are inspired by her battle with Lyme disease. On December 25, 2016, Lavigne announced that she would release the album in 2017. On March 1, 2017, Lavigne announced that she had signed with BMG Rights Management and promised to release the album in 2017. On January 21, 2018, Lavigne responded to a fan on Twitter about the album, saying: "[The album is] personal, dear, intimate, dramatic, raw, powerful, strong and unexpected. This record is a true emotional journey." On February 7, 2018, Lavigne posted on Twitter about the album, saying: "I've started mixing my album and all of the pieces are finally coming together. These songs are so close to my heart. Wish me luck while I throw every last drop of me into these final stages." In May, Lavigne finished recording the album, though she was reported to have worked with songwriter Bonnie McKee afterwards.
On July 7, 2018, Lavigne stated that the album cover was being shot that week. On August 18, 2018, Lavigne posted on her social media: "Exciting things coming" and "prepping for my video shoot". On September 6, 2018, Lavigne posted a letter to her fans on her official website, revealing she wrote and recorded most of the album on her couch due to Lyme disease. She also stated that "Head Above Water" was the first song she wrote for the album. To Lavigne, recording this album was a "victorious moment" and a "huge accomplishment", describing it as "a very strong, triumphant, powerful and true record to me and my experiences over the last few years". On December 7, the singer revealed that the name of the album as Head Above Water and the tracklist. Along with revealing the album title, Lavigne also unveiled the cover artwork. The front cover shows her nude sitting in a pool of water holding an acoustic 