Heathers: The Musical is a musical with music, lyrics and book by Laurence O'Keefe and Kevin Murphy, based on the 1989 film of the same name written by Daniel Waters. The producers include J. Todd Harris, Amy Powers, RJ Hendricks, and Andy Cohen. After a sold-out Los Angeles tryout, the show moved Off-Broadway in 2014. After the run in 2014, the show had an Off-West End run in 2018 and then transferred to the West End in 2018 for a limited engagement. In 2022, Roku released the Off-West end version of Heathers on their streaming service for free.
The show is a high-energy black comedy and involves dark subject matter, including bullying, teen suicide, sexual assault, and school violence.


== Synopsis ==


=== Act 1 ===
In 1989, 17-year-old Veronica Sawyer despairs at Westerberg High School's hellish social hierarchy, where students like the heavyset Martha Dunnstock, Veronica's best friend, are tormented by jocks Ram Sweeney and Kurt Kelly, and the school is ruled by the Heathers: weak-willed Heather McNamara, bulimic and petty but repressed Heather Duke, and "mythic bitch" Heather Chandler. When Veronica's talent for forgery gets the Heathers out of detention, they give her a makeover and elevate her to their inner circle ("Beautiful").
Heather Chandler orders Veronica to forge a love letter from Ram to Martha, tempting Veronica with the promise of popularity ("Candy Store"). The mysterious, poetry-quoting new kid, Jason "J.D." Dean, criticizes Veronica for betraying her friend. After J.D. wins a fight against Ram and Kurt, Veronica finds herself unexpectedly attracted to him ("Fight for Me"). Veronica's parents confess to their daughter that they are not sure they like her new friends and would prefer if she was friends with Martha again ("Candy Store (Playoff)").
Veronica flirts with J.D. at a 7-Eleven, where he extols the virtues of the Slurpee for numbing his grief ("Freeze Your Brain"). At Ram's homecoming party, Veronica gets increasingly drunk ("Big Fun"). When the Heathers cruelly prank Martha, Veronica angrily resigns from the clique and vomits on Heather C., who vows to destroy Veronica's reputation. With nothing left to live for, Veronica breaks into J.D.'s bedroom and has sex with him ("Dead Girl Walking").
After suffering tormenting dreams ("Veronica's Chandler Nightmare"), Veronica, with J.D. in tow, apologizes to Heather C. and mixes hangover cures for her. J.D. adds toxic drain cleaner to his mug and convinces Veronica into serving it to Heather C., who drops dead. Veronica panics, but J.D. convinces her to forge a suicide note, which paints a more complex, misunderstood Heather C. This fictionalized version of her wins the school's sympathy and she becomes even more revered in death than she was in life ("The Me Inside of Me").
Veronica tries to get on with her normal life, but she is berated and mocked by Heather C.'s ghost, who warns that she had kept the other two Heathers in check and with her gone, things will get worse. She tries to rescue the remaining Heathers from a drunk Kurt and Ram, who unsuccessfully try to rape her ("Blue" or "You're Welcome"). An unleashed Heather D. assumes Heather C.'s status and symbolic red scrunchie, becoming even more of a tyrant than Heather C. was, while Ram and Kurt tell everyone they had sex with Veronica ("Blue (Reprise)" or "Never Shut Up Again"). Veronica is branded a slut ("Blue" (Playoff)—not included in West End and future productions), and when J.D. attacks the jocks to defend her, they savagely beat him.
J.D. and Veronica comfort each other and plan a vengeful prank: she will lure the jocks to the cemetery with the promise of making their fictional threesome real, then together they will shoot them with tranquilizer "Ich lüge" bullets to knock them out before leaving a forged suicide note confessing they were gay lovers. When the jocks arrive, J.D. shoots Ram but Veronica misses Kurt. As she realizes Ram is dead and the bullets are real, J.D. shoots Kurt dead