Hello Mary Lou: Prom Night II is a 1987 Canadian supernatural slasher film directed by Bruce Pittman, and starring Michael Ironside, Wendy Lyon, Louis Ferreira, and Lisa Schrage. It follows a high school student who becomes possessed by Mary Lou Maloney, a student who died at her high school prom in 1957. A sequel to the slasher film Prom Night (1980), it was originally intended to be a standalone film titled The Haunting of Hamilton High, but was retitled in order to capitalize on the success of the original Prom Night. The only story connection between the two films is that they are set at the same high school. However, both films were executive produced by Peter R. Simpson.
Filmed in Edmonton, Alberta in 1986, the film was retitled Hello Mary Lou: Prom Night II by its Canadian distributor, Alliance Films. It was released theatrically in the United States by The Samuel Goldwyn Company in October 1987, and grossed nearly $3 million at the U.S. box office. The film received mixed reviews from critics, with many drawing stylistic comparisons to various other films of the era, ranging from David Lynch's Blue Velvet to its horror contemporaries Carrie and A Nightmare on Elm Street.
The character Mary Lou Maloney would also appear in the next installment, Prom Night III: The Last Kiss (1990).


== Plot ==
In 1957, at a high school senior prom, student Billy Nordham discovers his date Mary Lou Maloney making out with another boy named Buddy Cooper. Mary Lou breaks up with Billy and infuriates him when she reveals that she was just using him. Shortly after, Mary Lou is announced prom queen, and Billy, looking for revenge, throws a stink bomb onto the stage as a prank. However, the fuse of the bomb accidentally ignites Mary Lou's dress, and she burns to death in front of the horrified students.
30 years later, student Vicki Carpenter goes looking for a dress in the school prop room after being denied a new dress by her overly religious mother. There, Vicki finds an old trunk containing the cape and crown that Mary Lou was supposed to wear during the crowning process. She takes the accessories and leaves them in the school overnight, inadvertedly releasing Mary Lou's spirit in the process. That night, Vicki's friend Jess is killed by Mary Lou's ghost after she tries to remove the jewels from her crown. Jess's death is ruled as a suicide brought on by an unexpected pregancy.
Vicki begins experiencing surreal, nightmarish hallucinations involving Mary Lou and informs Buddy, who is now a priest. The following night, Buddy's bible spontaneously combusts after he attempts to bless Mary Lou's grave. Worried, Buddy approaches Billy, who is now the high school principal. He tries to warn Billy that Mary Lou has come back from the grave, but is dismissed as crazy. Later, Vicki winds up in detention after she inadvertedly slaps her rival Kelly Henenlotter during another hallucination. There, Vicki is possessed by Mary Lou after she pulls her through a blackboard that transforms into a whirlpool. That night, Vicki confronts Buddy at the church and murders him after revealing her possession. 
The next day, Vicki's friends notice that her personality and fashion style have suddenly changed drastically. One of Vicki's friends, Monica, privately confronts Vicki in the locker room, but is killed quickly after doing so. Vicki then reveals her possession to Billy and taunts him. That night, Billy finds Mary Lou's corpse missing from her grave, with Buddy's corpse in it's place. 
At the prom, Kelly, desperate to become prom queen, fellates her classmate Josh since he’s in charge of the voting results. When Josh changes the outcome to make Kelly the winner, Vicki electrocutes him to death through his computer and reverses his changes. Once announced as prom queen, Vicki goes up on stage and eagerly waits for her crown. Before she can get it, Billy shoots her multiple times to the horror of the crowd. Shortly after, the now-fully resurrected Mary Lou burs