Herbie Goes to Monte Carlo is a 1977 American sports adventure comedy film directed by Vincent McEveety and written by Arthur Alsberg and Don Nelson. The film is the third installment in the Herbie film series and the sequel to Herbie Rides Again (1974). In the film, Dean Jones returns as champion race car driver Jim Douglas (reprising his role from The Love Bug, the first film in the series), joined this time by his somewhat cynical and eccentric riding mechanic Wheely Applegate (Don Knotts). The film follows Douglas, Applegate, and Herbie as they participate in the fictional Trans-France Race, a road race from Paris, France, to Monte Carlo, Monaco.
Herbie Goes to Monte Carlo was followed by Herbie Goes Bananas (1980).


== Plot ==

Jim Douglas, his partner and mechanic Wheely Applegate, and Herbie arrive in Paris to qualify for and compete in the Trans-France Race (a fictional version of the Monte Carlo Rally), in the hopes of staging a career comeback. The team has three major opponents in the race: Bruno Von Stickle (Eric Braeden), a German driver with experience in the "European Racing Circuit," Claude Gilbert (Mike Kulcsar), a French driver, and Diane Darcy (Julie Sommars), a beautiful young woman and the only female driver in the Trans-France Race. 
Herbie falls in love at first sight with Giselle, Diane's sentient Lancia Scorpion. Diane initially hates Jim for what was apparently his, but actually was Herbie's knee-jerk behaviour that ruin her chances of succeeding during the first qualifying rounds, as the strong-willed Diane does not appear to believe in any cars that can be alive and have a mind of their own. Herbie and Giselle go on a 'date' together, and the following day both cars qualify successfully for the race, Herbie performing donuts across the line in a bid to impress Giselle.
Meanwhile, two diamond thieves, Max (Bernard Fox) and Quincey (Roy Kinnear), steal the famous Étoile de Joie (French for "Star of Joy") diamond and hide it in Herbie's fuel tank in order to avoid being captured by a swarm of searching policemen. They attempt to steal Herbie to retrieve the diamond, but Herbie causes them to blow every chance they get. The pair even threaten Jim and Wheely at gunpoint, an encounter from which Herbie manages to escape by driving through a gypsy camp and a building site. Wheely assumes Diane hired the two goons to knock them out of the race, causing a misunderstanding between Jim and Diane. Herbie is also taken into protection by the French police, headed by Inspector Bouchet (Jacques Marin) and his eager junior officer Fontenoy (Xavier Saint-Macary), causing them to miss the start of the race the following day. Giselle also refuses to start the race without Herbie, much to Diane's exasperation, but does so after Wheely lies to Giselle that Herbie has broken up with her. When Fontenoy eventually arrives with Herbie, Wheely also lies to Herbie that Giselle did the same to persuade Herbie to start the race, albeit from last place.
After numerous setbacks and delays, including another run in with the jewel thieves, Herbie, Jim and Wheely race back into contention. After Diane and Giselle crash into a lake, Herbie turns around and charges back to save them, after Jim reveals Wheely had lied to him. After being rescued by Herbie and Jim, Diane's attitude toward Jim softens, and Diane begins to understand that cars can have minds of their own. Herbie refuses to restart because of being determined to stay with Giselle, but Diane encourages Herbie not to relent in the quest for victory in the Trans-France Race, but not before Herbie makes Wheely get down on his knees and apologise for lying to him. With Diane now out of the race, Jim pursues Von Stickle through the streets of Monte Carlo, leading to a thrilling duel for the win. Herbie takes the lead by driving upside down on the tunnel roof of the Monaco Grand Prix Circuit, and Jim drives Herbie to victory.
After the race, it is revealed that Inspector Bouchet