Honeymoon in Vegas is a musical with a book by Andrew Bergman and music and lyrics by Jason Robert Brown. The musical is based on the 1992 movie of the same name which Bergman also wrote and directed. The musical had its world premiere at the Paper Mill Playhouse and premiered on Broadway in January 2015.


== Productions ==
The musical held a workshop and backers auditions in October 2011, with T.R. Knight, Mary Faber, and Tony Danza in the leads. Nancy Opel, Alvin Ing, John Conlee, Rob Bartlett, and Deborah Lew also took part in the workshop, which was directed by Gary Griffin.
The musical had been originally scheduled to premiere in November 2012 in Toronto and to premiere on Broadway in the spring of 2013, but those plans fell through. When the Toronto engagement was called off, the producers said: "The New York producers have decided not to open the show in Toronto this fall because of scheduling issues. Future plans for the production will be announced soon."
Subsequently, the musical premiered at the Paper Mill Playhouse, Millburn, New Jersey on September 26, 2013 (previews), running through October 27, 2013, with an expected move to Broadway in 2014. Gary Griffin is the director, with choreography by Denis Jones, and Tony Danza starring as Tommy Korman. The cast features Rob McClure as Jack Singer, Brynn O'Malley as Betsy Nolan, Nancy Opel as Bea Singer, Matthew Saldivar as Johnny Sandwich, David Josefsberg as Buddy Rocky/Roy Bacon, and Catherine Ricafort as Mahi.
The musical opened on Broadway at the Nederlander Theatre on November 18, 2014, in previews, and officially on January 15, 2015. The cast featured Tony Danza as Tommy Korman, Rob McClure as Jack Singer, Brynn O'Malley as Betsy Nolan, Nancy Opel as Bea Singer, Matthew Saldivar as Johnny Sandwich, David Josefsberg as Buddy Rocky/Roy Bacon, and Catherine Ricafort as Mahi. The ensemble consisted of Matt Allen, Tracee Beazer, Grady McLeod Bowman, Barry Busby, Leslie Donna Flesner, Gaelen Gilliland, Albert Guerzon, Raymond J. Lee, George Merrick, Jessica Naimy, Zachary Prince, Catherine Ricafort, Jonalyn Saxer, Brendon Stimson, Erica Sweany, Cary Tedder, and Katie Webber. 
On March 31, the producers announced its closing on Broadway due to poor sales at the box office. According to Playbill, "The musical was praised by critics, but failed to catch on at the box office." The show closed on Broadway on April 5, 2015.
On March 12, 2017, the London premiere was given by the London Musical Theatre Orchestra conducted by Jason Robert Brown in a semi-staged concert version at the London Palladium. The concert was met with rave reviews from audiences, three standing ovations and a speech and solo performance on piano and ukulele by Brown himself. The production, produced by Yeoburn and Price for United Theatrical, starred Maxwell Caulfield as Tommy, Samantha Barks as Betsy, Arthur Darvill as Jack, Rosemary Ashe as Bea Singer, Nicolas Colicos as Johnny Sandwich, Simon Lipkin as Buddy Rocky/Roy Bacon, Maisey Bawden as Mahi, Daniel Amity as Raymond, and Hywel Dowsell as Teihutu.
On April 9, 2024 a new Japanese production opened in Tokyo starring Kei Inoo of the idol group Hey! Say! JUMP as Jack. The production also starred Ruka Matsuda as Betsy, Daimu Kiriya as Bee, and Kohei Kamiguchi as Rocky.


== Synopsis ==


=== Act One ===
Jack Singer and his girlfriend of five years, Betsy Nolan, are in love ("I Love Betsy"). But when he tries to buy her an engagement ring, he suffers a panic attack as he remembers his mother's dying wish from ten years earlier—that he never marry, because no woman could love him as she did ("Never Get Married"). Betsy tells Jack that she can't wait indefinitely for him to deal with his issues ("Anywhere But Here"). He proposes that they elope to Las Vegas, and she accepts. They check into the Milano hotel ("When You Say Vegas"), and Betsy immediately catches the attention of Tommy Korman, a wealthy gambler; she bears an uncanny resemblance to his lat