The Hot Spot is a 1990 American neo-noir romantic thriller film directed by Dennis Hopper, based on the 1953 novel Hell Hath No Fury by Charles Williams, who also co-wrote the screenplay. It stars Don Johnson, Virginia Madsen, and Jennifer Connelly, and features a score by Jack Nitzsche played by John Lee Hooker, Miles Davis, Taj Mahal, Roy Rogers, Tim Drummond, and drummer Earl Palmer.


== Plot ==
Drifter Harry Madox takes a job as a used car salesman in a small Texas town. In the summer heat, he develops an interest in Gloria Harper, who works at the car dealership in the loan office. He notices Gloria's shoes, which have wooden fruit on them. Dolly Harshaw, who is married to the dealership's owner, flirts with Harry, telling him that she has a pair of shoes exactly like Gloria's. Soon after they begin a torrid affair.
Harry learns that the staff of the local bank are all volunteer firemen and that the cameras in the bank do not work. After careful planning, he sets a fire in a building across the street to lure them all away and while they are gone, he robs the bank. His conscience forces him to enter the burning building to save a homeless man trapped inside. Despite this the town's sheriff suspects Harry of committing the robbery, but Dolly gives him an alibi and tells him she will sell him out unless he kills her husband, whom she married for his money. When he refuses, Dolly threatens to expose him. She ultimately kills her husband herself by overstimulating his weak heart during a vigorous sexual encounter. 
Meanwhile, Harry discovers that Gloria is being blackmailed by a local criminal named Frank Sutton. Sutton has nude photographs he took of Gloria and her friend Irene Davey after hearing about Irene being with another woman, who turned out to be her former teacher. Harry, who has fallen in love with Gloria, confronts Sutton to get the pictures. The tense conversation escalates into a fight, and Harry severely beats Sutton, but he defiantly continues to blackmail Gloria. Harry visits Sutton at his home and finds him having sex with a woman wearing wooden fruit shoes exactly like those belonging to Gloria. As Harry and Sutton begin fighting, the unknown woman suffers an injury to her face. Harry ends up killing Sutton in the ensuing struggle. He plants evidence to divert suspicion away from himself, and he disposes of the shoes, believing they belong to Gloria. He then tells the police that Sutton, who had no job and few assets, had recently paid cash for a new car, making it seem that Sutton had robbed the bank. Harry receives a hefty reward for providing the tip that helps the police "solve" the robbery. He plans to marry Gloria and take her to the Caribbean Islands.
Dolly ruins Harry's plans by showing him a copy of a certified letter she has entrusted to her attorney which is to be opened in the event of her death. The letter is a firsthand account that will implicate him in the bank robbery and in Sutton's death. Gloria arrives, and Dolly begins telling her about her affair with Harry and that she knows she was using company funds to pay off Sutton. Harry notices that Gloria is wearing her wooden fruit shoes. After seeing the fresh scar on Dolly's face, Harry realizes that it was her and not Gloria who was having sex with Sutton. Dolly then tells Gloria that she won't go to the police and that she can keep her job at the car dealership to pay back the money she stole. Believing she has been played for a fool, a heartbroken Gloria leaves Harry. Enraged, Harry tries to strangle Dolly, but cannot bring himself to kill her. Harry resigns himself to life with Dolly, and leaves town with her.


== Cast ==


== Production ==
Charles Williams wrote a screenplay version of his own novel with Nona Tyson in 1962. It was intended for Robert Mitchum. Many years later, Dennis Hopper found the script and updated it. The director described the film as "Last Tango in Texas. Real hot, steamy stuff".
A bedroom scene originally ca