A house party is a type of party held at the home of the party's host.


== Organization ==

A house party might be organized several months or just a few hours in advance. News of a party may be spread by personal invitations, word of mouth, posted leaflets, or notices on social networking sites. Broad notice of a party – sometimes unintentionally – can result in large numbers of people attending who do not know the host personally and may be disruptive. A person who attends a house party but has not been invited is typically referred to as a "gatecrasher", particularly if the party is only open to invited guests; they are usually perceived negatively but may nonetheless be welcomed by the host.


== History ==
An early example of a house party can be seen in the play Mostellaria (The Haunted House) by the Roman playwright Plautus. In the play, a young man called Philolaches holds a house party with many friends while his father, Theopropides, is away on business.
House parties have become a prominent feature in popular movies, particularly movies aimed at teenagers. While many have probably been present before the movie, The Party  is one of the first to properly provide a scene of a house party. However, the most popular film later on is House Party, featuring the hip-hop duo Kid 'n Play.


== In various cultures ==
In Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, a sijelo (in Ijekavian), silo (in Ikavian) or selo (In Ekavian) is an evening social gathering at a house. 
In Ireland, a Céilí is a social gathering which, in its traditional form, takes place in a domestic dwelling. Contemporary céliís often involve music and dancing and can also take place in a public or private meeting space, in addition to in a domestic setting.
In the United Kingdom, house parties may be referred to as a 'Skins' party, referring to a well-known TV show focusing on the lives of teenagers who often participate in and host open house parties.


== See also ==

Cocktail party
House Party, Inc.
House Party (radio and TV show)
Political houseparty
Šokačko sijelo, minority festival


== References ==


== Bibliography ==
For Sijelo:

Milenko S. Filipović (1982). Among the people, native Yugoslav ethnography: selected writing of Milenko S. Filipović. Michigan Slavic Publications, Dept. of Slavic Languages and Literatures. p. 97. ISBN 9780930042479.
Norman M. Naimark; Holly Case (2003). Yugoslavia and Its Historians: Understanding the Balkan Wars of the 1990s. Stanford University Press. ISBN 978-0-8047-4594-9.