The House film series is a group of four American horror films released between 1986 and 1994, with the fifth installment scheduled for release in 2024. The series also touches on genres such as psychological thriller, supernatural, slasher, comedy, and adventure. 
The plot of the first film was based on an original story written by Fred Dekker, with subsequent movies being based on his initial concept. The overall plot of the individual movies center around the supernatural events that take place at haunted houses, and detail the actions of the protagonist families that live in them.
Though the original film was initially met with mixed critical reception, it has since been deemed a cult classic in the horror genre. Due to its financial success at the box office, the studio and its producers fast-tracked a standalone sequel. Written and directed by the first installment's screenwriter, the second film was met with overwhelmingly negative critical reaction and mild box office returns. Despite this, the installment has also gained a cult following in the years since. The third film was both a monetary and critical failure, though a few aspects have received some praise by modern retrospective analysis. With financial losses, the fourth and final movie was produced with a microbudget and given a direct-to-home video release in the U.S., due to the increase popularity of video rental stores, and limited theatrical release in other countries. The film was met with financial disappointment and negative reception from its critics as well as its audience. Despite this, the movie was number one in Italian theaters upon its release, while modern film critics acknowledge its return-to-form for the series.


== Films ==


=== House (1986) ===

A formerly popular, troubled author named Roger Cobb is tasked with writing another novel by his publisher. These new stresses associated with his contractual obligations, compound the reality that he and his wife have separated after his young son has gone missing. Cobb finds himself the heir of an old house when his elderly aunt who recently committed suicide in the home, leaves the estate to him. Despite the discouragement of others, he decides to spend his time there while he writes his book. Though the financers want him to write another horror story, he opts to base the tale on his time in the Vietnam War instead. Shortly after moving in, he begins to have horrific nightmares and experiences strange phenomena during the daylight hours. A series of attacks from other-worldly entities convinces the author to confide in those around him, though his neighbor begins to question his sanity.
He soon locates a gateway within the home, which leads to another dimension where he locates his son. After returning with Jimmy, he must also face the ghosts of his past including a personification of his comrade named Big Ben, who was killed during their time in Vietnam. Cobb seeks to work through his problems, while overcoming his inner demons, so that he can reunite with his recently reformed family.


=== House II: The Second Story (1987) ===

Jesse McLaughlin, and his girlfriend Kate move into his old family mansion together. Though he inherited the property as a baby when his parents died, he has purposefully avoided the property. The couple allow his best friend Charlie Coriell, and the latter's girlfriend to move in as additional roommates. Together the group begin sorting through the various rooms in the home. They soon discover some memorabilia in the basement, which once belonged to his great-great-grandfather (and namesake). "Gramps", who was a treasure hunter was the keeper of an Aztec crystal skull that he discovered with his partner and friend-turned-enemy "Slim" Reeser. After examining some photographs and paperwork, they resolve to dig up the grave of his ancestor, believing that he had the ancient treasure buried with him.
In the process of doing so, the curse of the item inadvertently awakens