How to Make an American Quilt is a 1995 American drama film based on the 1991 novel of the same name by Whitney Otto. Directed by Jocelyn Moorhouse, the film features Winona Ryder, Anne Bancroft, Ellen Burstyn, Kate Nelligan and Alfre Woodard. It is notable as being Jared Leto's film debut. Amblin Entertainment optioned Otto's novel in 1991, and were able to persuade Steven Spielberg to finance the screenplay's development. How to Make an American Quilt  received mixed reviews from critics. It was a box-office success, grossing $41 million against a $10 million budget. The film was nominated for the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture.


== Characters ==


=== Finn Dodd ===
Main character. Following her boyfriend Sam's proposal, Finn visits her great aunt and grandmother to finish her thesis and think over it. At her grandmother's, a quilting group congregates, and she's shocked and surprised to discover that the current quilt that they're working on is a wedding gift for her when she gets married. The theme of the quilt is "where love resides". As Finn is unsure whether she's ready for marriage or if he's "the one", the women's stories in the quilting group open her eyes to the different kinds of love that exist. 
During her time at her grandmother's, she meets Leon at the local pool and they have a brief affair. Eventually, wrapped in her quilt and following a crow (reminiscent of Anna's tale about her aunt), she comes across Sam and chooses to stay with him.


=== Sophia Darling ===
In her early 20s, Sophia was a talented diver with dreams of escaping her small town and overbearing mother. One day she meets Preston Richards while diving at the local pool and romance ensues. He's attracted by her fearlessness and she believes he can take her away from her current, oppressive way of life. However, motherhood turns out to be just as, if not more, oppressive and married life soon grinds her down. With three children and little help from Preston who is frequently away because of his job, she no longer has time to dive and eventually forgets the feeling of freedom and escape it gives her.
One day she snaps at Preston for digging a pond in the back garden. Trying to remind her of the girl he fell in love with, he tells her the pond is for her to wade in. After she rejects his efforts, he realizes her free spirit is gone. One morning, he leaves for work, never to return. Abandoned, bitter, and trapped in a life she didn't want, Sophia ends up like her overbearing mother, particularly in her relationship with Finn.
Years later, when the wind blows part of Finn's thesis into the pond, she wades in to get it. With her feet in the pool, she remembers what her husband tried to remind her of all those years ago, and one of the last scenes shows her diving off the high dive.


=== Em Reed ===
Em marries young, like most of the women in the story. Despite the promiscuity of her artistic husband Dean, she stays with him for a period of time. Eventually, after discovering yet another affair, she leaves him whilst pregnant. She returns to her parents' home, but it still takes three months before Dean comes to find her. He begs forgiveness yet again, and her parents pack her bags, loading them into Dean's car. At this point, Em has no choice but to return to her broken life.
Years later, she suspects Constance is having an affair with Dean, which causes friction between them. Later, she realizes that, in his own way, Dean does truly love her when she takes shelter in his studio during a sudden wind storm and discovers numerous paintings of her telling the story of their life together over the years.


=== Glady Joe Cleary and Hy Dodd ===
Gladiola (Glady) Joe and Hyacinth (Hy) are Finn's great aunt and grandmother and sisters to one another. At one point, Hy goes to visit her dying husband in the hospital.  Despite her deep love for her husband, she leaves the hospital and sleeps with Glady's husb