Howards End is a novel by E. M. Forster, first published in 1910, about social conventions, codes of conduct and relationships in turn-of-the-century England. Howards End is considered by many to be Forster's masterpiece. The book was conceived in June 1908 and worked on throughout the following year; it was completed in July 1910.


== Premise ==
The story revolves around three families in England at the beginning of the 20th century: the Wilcoxes, rich capitalists with a fortune made in the colonies; the half-German Schlegel siblings (Margaret, Helen, and Tibby), whose cultural pursuits have much in common with the Bloomsbury Group; and the Basts, an impoverished young couple from a lower-class background. The idealistic, intelligent Schlegel sisters seek to help the struggling Basts and to rid the Wilcoxes of some of their deep-seated social and economic prejudices.


== Plot summary ==
The Schlegels, a family of intellectual and idealistic sisters, once befriended the Wilcoxes, a wealthy and conventional family, during their time in Germany. Helen Schlegel visits the Wilcoxes' country house, Howards End, where she becomes engaged to Paul Wilcox but soon regrets the hasty decision and they break off the engagement. At a concert, Helen takes Leonard Bast's umbrella by mistake and leaves him her sister Margaret's card to retrieve it.
Later, the Wilcoxes move to London and become neighbours with the Schlegels. Margaret befriends Ruth Wilcox, the matriarch of the family, who feels a deep connection to Howards End. Ruth, on her deathbed, writes a note leaving the house to Margaret, but her widowed husband Henry and his children conceal the inheritance and burn the note.
Leonard Bast, an impoverished clerk, lives with a woman named Jacky. When Jacky shows up at the Schlegels' house looking for her "husband", Helen is mystified. Leonard explains the situation, and the Schlegels meet Henry Wilcox, who advises Leonard to quit his job due to the impending collapse of the company. Margaret and Henry's friendship turns into a romance, and they become engaged despite opposition from Henry's children, who fear Margaret's claim to Howards End.
Helen attends the wedding of Evie Wilcox with Leonard and Jacky, who are now married and in dire financial straits. Henry recognizes Jacky as his former mistress and accuses the Schlegels and Basts of plotting against him. Margaret, disturbed by the revelation, forgives Henry and wishes to salvage their relationship.
Helen strongly disapproves of Henry's mistreatment of the Basts and spends the night with Leonard discussing their plight. Helen later confides in her brother Tibby and decides to send financial help to the Basts, but Leonard returns the first cheque and declines further assistance.
After their wedding, Margaret becomes concerned about Helen's restless travels. When their Aunt Juley falls ill, Margaret asks Helen to return home, but Helen refuses to see the family. Margaret and Henry visit Howards End, hoping to surprise Helen, and discover her secret pregnancy. Margaret stands by her sister and urges Henry to forgive her as she has forgiven him, but he remains unconvinced.
Leonard arrives at Howards End the next day, tormented by his affair with Helen and unaware of her presence. Charles Wilcox attacks Leonard, causing him to grab a bookcase that collapses and fatally injures him due to undiagnosed heart disease. Margaret decides to leave Henry, but he reveals that Charles will be charged with manslaughter. Charles is found guilty and sentenced to prison.
Henry, overwhelmed by shame, agrees to honour Ruth's wish and leave Howards End to Margaret. He also stipulates that, after Margaret's death, the property will pass to the son of Helen and Leonard. Helen returns to Howards End, and the family warmly welcomes her and her son.


== Reception ==
In 1998, the Modern Library ranked Howards End 38th on its list of the 100 best English-language novels of the 20th century.
A Manchester Guardi