I Love Trouble is a 1994 American romantic action comedy film starring Julia Roberts and Nick Nolte. It was written and produced by the husband-and-wife team of Nancy Meyers and Charles Shyer, and directed by Shyer.


== Plot ==
Peter Brackett and Sabrina Peterson are two rival Chicago newspaper reporters. Sabrina is young and ambitious, whereas Peter is a fading star and has just published his first novel. They reluctantly join forces to unravel the mystery behind a train derailment. They argue over almost everything but discover a conspiracy involving genetically altered milk.


== Cast ==
Julia Roberts - Sabrina Peterson
Nick Nolte - Peter Brackett
Saul Rubinek - Sam Smotherman/Ernesto Vargas
James Rebhorn - the Thin Man
Robert Loggia - Matt Greenfield, Chronicle Editor
Kelly Rutherford - Kim
Olympia Dukakis - Jeannie, Peter's Secretary
Marsha Mason - Senator Gayle Robbins
Eugene Levy - Justice of the Peace
Charles Martin Smith - Rick Medwick
Dan Butler - Wilson Chess
Paul Gleason - Kenny Bacon
Jane Adams - Evans
Lisa Lu - Virginia Harvey
Nora Dunn - Lindy
Megan Cavanagh - Mrs. Delores Beekman
Clark Gregg - Darryl Beekman, Jr.
Anna Holbrook - Woman in Sportscar
Jay Wolpert - Passing Writer
Andy Milder - Copy Man
Dorothy Lyman - Suzie
Keith Gordon - Andy
Joseph D'Onofrio - Sully
Barry Sobel - Delivery Person
Frankie Faison - Police Chief
Stuart Pankin - Society Photographer
James 'Kimo' Wills - Danny Brown
Patrick St. Esprit - Assassin
Paul Hirsch - Man on Plane
Jessica Lundy - Flight Attendant #1
Nestor Serrano - Pecos
Robin Duke - Sandra
Bruce A. Block - Man at Newsstand
Hallie Meyers-Shyer - Little Girl in Barn


== Production ==
In February 1993 it was announced Nolte had been cast as one of the leads. 
Nolte and Roberts notoriously did not get along with each other during the making of the film. Nolte, who has since disowned the film, felt that he sold his soul by doing it, and that he did it only for the money. As a result, he was tense while on the set, and did not have a good working relationship with Julia Roberts. Roberts has, on her part, called Nolte the worst actor with whom she has ever worked. She also has described him as "disgusting," whereas Nolte has said she's "not a nice person."


== Reception ==

The film grossed over $30 million in box-office receipts in the United States and less than $62 million worldwide.

On Rotten Tomatoes the film has an approval rating of 22% rating based on 46 reviews. The site's consensus states: "There appears to be no Love lost between the fatally mismatched coupling of Julia Roberts and Nick Nolte in this screwball misfire that just isn't worth the Trouble." Audiences surveyed by CinemaScore gave the film a grade B on scale of A to F.
Todd McCarthy of Variety  wrote: "The goings-on seem lacking in wit and inspiration, tolerably entertaining but far from effervescent." Roger Ebert of the Chicago Sun-Times wrote: "Maybe it would have been funnier if the evil cow conglomerate had been replaced by something sillier and more lightweight; it's hard to sustain a romantic comedy in the face of death threats." 

Kenneth Turan of the Los Angeles Times wrote that "it's a good thing I Love Trouble loves trouble, because trouble is just what it's in." He added: Although Julia Roberts and Nick Nolte beaming out at the world from "Trouble" posters everywhere point to a light and frothy concoction, that's not what filmmaking team Nancy Meyers and Charles Shyer (she produces, he directs, they both write) have delivered. On screens instead is a stab at the kind of thriller/romance combination that Alfred Hitchcock turned out in treats like "North by Northwest."
But, instead of the charm and the suspense complementing each other in the classic manner, they drag each other down. The film's jeopardy sequences are ineffectual and cast a pall over the romantic comedy aspects, which are not especially entrancing despite the star power. Instead of synergy, what "Trouble" achieves is more like disa