The Idolmaker is a 1980 American musical drama directed by Taylor Hackford in his feature directorial debut, written by Edward di Lorenzo, and starring Ray Sharkey, Peter Gallagher, Paul Land, Tovah Feldshuh and Joe Pantoliano. Loosely based on the life of rock promoter/producer Bob Marcucci, whose discoveries included Frankie Avalon and Fabian and who served as a technical advisor for the production, the film marked the screen debuts of both Gallagher and Land.


== Plot ==
In the Bronx in 1959, waiter and aspiring singer-songwriter Vincent "Vinnie" Vacarri is informed by his best friend and piano accompanist, Gino "G.G." Pilato, of their upcoming time slot at a recording studio, while working at his family's restaurant. After fighting with the mobster who owns the studio, he later tells his mother he lacks the necessary looks and charisma to be a singer. Inspired by observing his friend Tomaso DeLorusso charismatically playing saxophone at a New Jersey nightclub, Vinnie convinces him that he is destined to be a headline act. Over the next few months, he molds him into a singer under the name "Tommy Dee" and produces a record with him. In order to promote Tommy by starting a record company, he reluctantly asks his father Frank for a $10,000 loan, criticizing him for selfishly abandoning his family for money and women. 
Vinnie presses Tommy's records, and eventually Tommy successfully performs his debut single "Here Is My Love" on disc jockey Walt Bennett's show. Afterward, Walt pretends Tommy's song is mediocre until Vinnie bribes him into putting Tommy’s record in rotation. Later, Vinnie convinces Teen Scene magazine editor Brenda Roberts to feature Tommy on the magazine's upcoming cover. Sometime later, Tommy performs his follow-up single "Sweet Little Lover" on the television show National Bandstand, ignoring the rehearsed choreography and spontaneously interacting with the female audience. While celebrating his new success at the family restaurant, Vinnie becomes intoxicated, berates a clumsy waiter, and complains that Tommy will not follow his advice to study acting, frightening an overly concerned Brenda. 
Sometime later, Vinnie gives his father a check to repay part of the loan, who warns him to remain humble and protect his investment while simultaneously advising him to draw up a contract with Tommy and recruit more clients. Later, Vinnie meets with Phil Delano, an agent from I.A.A., a large talent agency, and agrees to find Tommy a movie role. Meanwhile, following his father's advice, he transforms busboy Guido Bevaloqua into a singer named "Caesare" and assuages a jealous Tommy when he sees Vinnie grooming Caesare instead of joining him on tour. Later, Vinnie arranges a tryout for Caesare at a small club. In the dressing room, Tommy's advice to Caesare to smoke to calm his nerves sickens Caesare. On stage, he nervously runs off before finishing the first song. As Caesare vomits in the alley, Vinnie reassures him that he will not let him down. Afterwards, Vinnie creatively markets Caesare by splashing his photograph across town. As both continue rehearsals, an abandoned Tommy expresses a desire to obtain the part in a television series that Vinnie denied him and threatens to fire him. At Caesare's next concert, girls attack him on stage while he is performing his debut single "Baby", ripping his clothing, but once more security is added, he successfully finishes his performance. 
Instead of allowing Caesare to tour, Vinnie places him in seclusion to increase his mystique. After five months, a restless Caesare borrows Gino's car to spend a romantic evening with Teen Scene reporter Ellen Fields. While he is returning, a cop gives him a ticket for driving while intoxicated and running a red light. To prevent the misdemeanor from being publicized, Vinnie gives the officer concert tickets and threatens to drop Caesare as an act. When Vinnie hands Brenda a report, revealing that Ellen, her best reporter, has had similar r