In Search of the Castaways is a 1962 American adventure film starring Maurice Chevalier and Hayley Mills in a tale about a worldwide search for a shipwrecked sea captain. The film was produced by Walt Disney Productions and directed by Robert Stevenson from a screenplay by Lowell S. Hawley, based upon Jules Verne's 1868 adventure novel Captain Grant's Children.
In Search of the Castaways was the third of six films Hayley Mills starred in at Disney.


== Plot ==
In Britain in 1858, Professor Paganel (Maurice Chevalier), a scientifically thinking French geography professor, finds a bottle containing a note which he believes to have been written by the missing Captain John Grant (Jack Gwillim). Paganel and Grant's two teenaged children, Mary (Hayley Mills) and Robert (Keith Hamshere), approach John Glenarvan (Michael Anderson Jr.) and his father, the wealthy shipping magnate Lord Glenarvan (Wilfrid Hyde-White), the owner of Captain Grant's ship, and persuade them to finance a search expedition. The expedition sets sail and ventures halfway around the world to South America.
In the Andes, an earthquake sends them down a mountain on a glacier. A giant condor snatches up Robert but Thalcave (Antonio Cifariello), an Indian chief, rescues him. He later claims to know the whereabouts of Captain Grant. After surviving a tidal wave and a lightning storm, the group discovers that the well-meaning Thalcave was mistaken. Meanwhile, a budding romance develops between young Mary Grant and Lord Glenarvan's son John.
They then depart for Australia, where Paganel feels sure they will find Captain Grant. In Melbourne they meet a treacherous gunrunner, Thomas Ayerton (George Sanders), who produces evidence that Captain Grant is in New Zealand. Unaware that Ayerton is the third mate who caused a mutiny on Grant's ship, the search party once more sets sail. Ayerton causes another mutiny and sets the group adrift. They are captured by Maori cannibals, and are imprisoned along with Captain Grant's shipmate, Bill Gaye (Wilfrid Brambell), who helps them escape to a volcano. They evade their pursuers by starting an avalanche which triggers an eruption.
They finally find Captain Grant, overcome Ayerton and his mutineers, and sail for home. As they all sit around talking, the note that Professor Paganel initially found (and that was supposedly in Captain Grant's handwriting) is brought up. Captain Grant states that he never wrote any note, to which Bill says: "The voice be the voice of a God-fearing man. But the hands are the hands of a forger", implying that he imitated Captain Grant's handwriting and wrote the note himself. In the final scene, the Professor points out John and Mary stargazing out at the railing, clearly falling for one another.


== Cast ==

Maurice Chevalier as Jacques Paganel
Hayley Mills as Mary Grant
George Sanders as Thomas Ayerton
Wilfrid Hyde-White as Lord Glenarvan
Michael Anderson Jr. as John Glenarvan
Keith Hamshere as Robert Grant
Antonio Cifariello as Thalcave, the Indian Chief
Wilfrid Brambell as Bill Gaye
Jack Gwillim as Captain Grant
Inia Te Wiata as Maori Chief
Ronald Fraser as Guard at Dockyard Gate
Norman Bird as Senior Yacht Guard
George Murcell as Ayerton's Assistant
Mark Dignam as Rich Man at Yacht Party
Michael Wynne as Crooked Sailor
David Spenser as South American Guide
Milo Sperber as Crooked Sailor
Roger Delgado as Patagonian Prisoner
Barry Keegan as Irish Claimant
Maxwell Shaw as Sailor
Andreas Malandrinos as Crooked Sailor


== Production ==
The film was originally called The Castaways. It was devised by Disney specifically as a vehicle for Hayley Mills, who was under contract to the studio to make a film a year for five years. Disney wanted to age her gradually on screen and she would have her first case of "puppy love" in the film. Disney wanted Mills' brother Jonathan to play her brother on screen but his school teachers turned it down.
In April 1961, Disney announced they would make the film with Mills and