Richard Dominik Incognito Jr. (born July 5, 1983) is an American former professional football player who was a guard in the National Football League (NFL). He played college football for the Nebraska Cornhuskers and was selected by the St. Louis Rams in the third round of the 2005 NFL draft. He played for them through the 2009 season, and also played for the Miami Dolphins and Buffalo Bills, making four Pro Bowls. After sitting out the 2018 season, Incognito signed with the Oakland Raiders, where he played three more seasons before retiring again.


== Early life ==
Born in Englewood, New Jersey, Incognito grew up in nearby Bogota and moved to Glendale, Arizona as a pre-teen. Incognito played offense and defense at Mountain Ridge High School in Glendale, and served as a long snapper, helping the Mountain Lions football team to an 8–4 record and the first round of the state playoffs in 2000. An All-America offensive lineman, Incognito was named to PrepStar's 120-man Dream Team. He was a second-team honoree on the Long Beach Press-Telegram's Best in the West list. Incognito was a finalist for the Arizona Player-of-the-Year Award, was named the Brian Murray Award winner, and earned the Frank Kush Award, given to the best offensive lineman in Arizona. He also earned First-team All-State honors on offense from the Arizona Republic. Incognito also earned one letter in track and field (shot put) and also competed in weight lifting.


== College career ==
In 2001, Incognito redshirted at the University of Nebraska. In 2002, he became the first Husker freshman offensive lineman to start in the season opener and just the third rookie lineman to earn any start in his first year of competition. He played in all 14 games, started 13 at left tackle and posted the second-highest season pancake total in Husker history with 171. He was named a first-team freshman All-American by FWAA, Sporting News, and Rivals.com as well as first-team freshman All-Big 12 by the Sporting News.
At the same time, however, Incognito began displaying behavioral problems that would follow him throughout his career. During a practice early in the 2002 season, he hit walk-on lineman Jack Limbaugh from behind, prompting Limbaugh to stomp off the field in disgust. During his second game, against Troy State, he was accused of spitting on a Troy State player. Two weeks later, he was ejected for picking a fight in a blowout loss to Penn State. Per NCAA rules, he had to sit out the first half of the Huskers' next game, against Iowa State. In the second-to-last game of the season, against Colorado, he was flagged for a 15-yard personal foul penalty late in the game that largely contributed to the Huskers losing to the Buffaloes.
In the spring of 2003, Incognito was involved in a fight during practice and suspended indefinitely by head coach Frank Solich. By this time, Solich and his staff were concerned enough about Incognito's behavior to send him to the Menninger Clinic in Topeka, Kansas for anger management treatment. Incognito was reinstated by the start of the season and started 13 games at left tackle. He was rewarded with a first-team All-Big 12 selection by the Associated Press. However, during the Huskers' victory in the 2003 Alamo Bowl, he was accused of spitting on two Michigan State players.
In February 2004, Incognito was involved in a fight at a party and was charged with three counts of assault. In June, he was found guilty on one of the misdemeanor assault charges and paid a $500 fine. Incognito was shifted to center during the 2004 preseason camp. He entered the season with high expectations, listed on a number of preseason lists as a top center and named to the watch list for the Rimington Trophy going to the best center in college football. On September 1, however, he was suspended indefinitely for repeated violations of team rules. The final straw for new coach Bill Callahan came when Incognito was once again involved in a fight in the locker room. Withi