Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade is a 1989 American action adventure film directed by Steven Spielberg from a screenplay by Jeffrey Boam, based on a story by George Lucas and Menno Meyjes. It is the third installment in the Indiana Jones film series and the sequel to Raiders of the Lost Ark (1981). Harrison Ford returned in the title role, while his father is portrayed by Sean Connery. Other cast members featured include Alison Doody, Denholm Elliott, Julian Glover, River Phoenix, and John Rhys-Davies. In the film, set in 1938, Indiana searches for his father, a Holy Grail scholar, who has been kidnapped and held hostage by the Nazis while on a journey to find the Holy Grail.
After criticism that Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom (1984) received, Spielberg chose to make a more lighthearted film for the next installment, as well as bringing back several elements from Raiders of the Lost Ark. During the five years between The Temple of Doom and The Last Crusade, he and executive producer Lucas reviewed several scripts before accepting Jeffrey Boam's. Filming locations included Spain, Italy, West Germany, Jordan, the United Kingdom, and the United States.
Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade was released in the United States on May 24, 1989, by Paramount Pictures. The film received positive reviews and was a financial success, earning over $474 million worldwide, making it the highest-grossing film of 1989. It also won the Academy Award for Best Sound Effects Editing and was nominated for Best Original Score and Best Sound at the 62nd Academy Awards. A sequel, Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull, followed in May 2008, while a fifth and final film, Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny, was released in June 2023.


== Plot ==
In 1912, Boy Scout Indiana Jones lives with his father Henry Jones Sr. in Moab, Utah. One day, while undergoing a cave exploration, Indiana takes a crucifix owned by Coronado from a group of graverobbers led by a man named Garth, and after a brief horse chase, flees to his home. Garth, however, has the robbers retrieve the crucifix and gives him his fedora before leaving.
Twenty-six years later, Indiana successfully takes back the crucifix from the graverobbers' employer off the Portuguese coast. After returning to the United States, Indiana learns Henry has disappeared while searching for the Holy Grail. Walter Donovan, his father's financial backer, tasks Indiana with finding both Henry and the Grail. Indiana receives a package containing Henry's diary, which includes his research on the Grail, and travels to Venice alongside Marcus Brody to meet Henry's associate Elsa Schneider. Beneath the library where Henry was last seen, Indiana and Elsa discover a catacomb containing an inscribed shield which reveals that the path to the Grail begins in Alexandretta. The two are subsequently attacked by a mysterious group who reveal themselves to be the secret Order of the Cruciform Sword, dedicated to protecting the Grail. After saving the group's leader, he informs Indiana that Henry is being held at a castle in Austria. Indiana entrusts Marcus with a map from the diary detailing a route to the Grail and sends him to Alexandretta to rendezvous with their old friend Sallah. Discovering their rooms have been ransacked, Indiana reveals the diary's existence to Elsa before they sleep together.
In Austria, Indiana and Elsa infiltrate the castle, discovering it to be under Nazi control. Indiana finds Henry and tries to escape, but surrenders after Elsa is held captive by the Nazis. She reveals herself to be a Nazi collaborator, and Indiana and Henry are tied up and learn that Donovan is also working with the Nazis. After arriving in Alexandretta, Marcus is captured by the Nazis as well. Elsa returns to Germany, while Indiana and Henry escape the castle before traveling to Berlin to retrieve the diary. After recovering it from Elsa, Indiana and Henry flee on a zeppelin before evading two Luftwaffe planes 