Inherit the Wind is a 1960 American drama film directed by Stanley Kramer and based on the 1955 play of the same name written by Jerome Lawrence and Robert Edwin Lee. It stars Spencer Tracy as lawyer Henry Drummond and Fredric March as his friend and rival Matthew Harrison Brady. It also features Gene Kelly, Dick York, Harry Morgan, Donna Anderson, Claude Akins, Noah Beery Jr., Florence Eldridge, Jimmy Boyd and Gordon Polk.
The script was adapted by Nedrick Young and Harold Jacob Smith. Kramer was commended for bringing in Young, as the latter was blacklisted and forced to use the pseudonym Nathan E. Douglas.
Inherit the Wind is a parable that fictionalizes the 1925 Scopes "Monkey" Trial as a means to discuss McCarthyism. Written in response to the chilling effect of the McCarthy era investigations on intellectual discourse, the film (like the play) is critical of creationism.
A television remake of the film which starred Melvyn Douglas and Ed Begley was broadcast in 1965. Another television remake that starred Jason Robards and Kirk Douglas aired in 1988. It was remade for television again in 1999, co-starring Jack Lemmon as Drummond and George C. Scott as Brady.


== Plot ==
In the 1920s, in the town of Hillsboro in an unknown state, a female voice sings "Old-time Religion" as schoolteacher Bertram Cates is arrested for violating state law by conducting a lesson on Charles Darwin's Descent of Man. The event makes headlines around the world. Matthew Brady, statesman, three-time presidential candidate and Biblical scholar, volunteers to assist Prosecutor Tom Davenport. 
A huge parade welcomes Brady, who asks Rev. Jeremiah Brown to stand beside him as he addresses the crowd. Witty and cynical E.K. Hornbeck of the Baltimore Herald, an influential newspaperman, seizes the opportunity to announce that Cates' defense attorney will be the equally well-known Henry Drummond, one of America's most controversial legal minds and a notorious agnostic.
Tourists begin to flood the town. Hornbeck welcomes Drummond and takes him on a tour of the circus Hillsboro has become. Meanwhile, in the courtroom, Judge Coffey deals with reporters, Hornbeck and photographers. Later, at the hotel Brady, his wife Sarah, and Drummond reminisce, regretting the loss of the close friendship he once had with the Bradys. That night, Rev. Brown rallies the townspeople, calling down God's vengeance. When his daughter Rachel, who is engaged to Cates, protests, he condemns her. Brady admonishes Brown by quoting Proverbs 11:29: "He that troubleth his own house shall inherit the wind", and sends the crowd home. 
Taking advantage of her confiding to him and Sarah, Brady calls Rachel to the stand, forcing her to tell how Cates left the church when her father declared that a child who drowned was not worthy of heaven because he was not baptized. He browbeats Rachel until Sarah cries out, "Matt!", and Brady seems to come to himself. Cates tells Drummond not to cross-examine Rachel. 
Drummond has six scientists as witnesses, but the prosecution successfully objects.  In an impassioned speech, Drummond paints a grim picture of the consequences of allowing a wicked law to prevail and asks to withdraw from the case. The judge orders him to show cause the next morning for why he should not be held in contempt. John Stebbins, the father of the boy who drowned, offers his farm as collateral for Drummond's bail.
That night, the crowds march with a burning effigy singing that Cates should be killed. When Drummond tells Hornbeck he needs a miracle, Hornbeck tosses him a Bible, exclaiming, "Here's a bagful!". Drummond clasps the Bible to his chest, beaming. 
In court, he calls Brady as a witness. Brady welcomes this challenge, but becomes increasingly flustered by Drummond's questions, until he is forced to confess that some Biblical passages cannot be interpreted literally. He loses control, and court is adjourned. In their hotel room, Brady weeps on Sarah's shoulder.
WGN Radio is 