Institute Benjamenta, or This Dream People Call Human Life is a 1995 drama film by the brothers Quay in their directorial debut. Based on Robert Walser's novel Jakob von Gunten, the film stars Mark Rylance, Alice Krige and Gottfried John.


== Plot ==
The plot follows Jakob (Mark Rylance), a young man who enters a school, run by brother and sister Johannes (Gottfried John) and Lisa Benjamenta (Alice Krige), which trains servants. The teachers emphasize to the students that they are unimportant people. Jakob finds the school to be an oppressive environment, and does not enjoy the lessons in subservience that he receives. He proceeds to challenge the Benjamentas and attempts to shift their perspectives. Lisa is attracted to Jakob and spends time with him, and shows him the secret labyrinth below the school. Lisa soon dies and after her death the institute closes. Herr Benjamenta also expresses his strange attraction to Jakob, and the film ends with Jakob agreeing to leave the school and travel together with him.


== Cast ==
Mark Rylance as Jakob von Gunten
Alice Krige as Lisa Benjamenta
Gottfried John as Johannes Benjamenta
Daniel Smith as Kraus
Joseph Alessi as Pepino
César Sarachu as Inigo
Jonathan Stone as Hebling
Peter Lovstrom as Jorgenson
Uri Roodner as Schilinksi
Peter Whitfield as Null


== Relation to the novel ==
Though the film follows the same basic structure as the novel, its plot is more limited. The film does not depict the ending of the novel, in which Jakob travels to a nearby city and meets his brother. The film remains almost exclusively focused on the institute once Jakob arrives there.
The Quays have characterized the film as a parallel universe of the novel. The film sometimes makes figurative aspects of the novel into literal objects in the film. One reoccurring theme in the film is that many objects are seen vibrating, such as forks or bells. Parallels have been drawn between these vibrations and the frequent theme of music in Walser's writing. Also, in one passage of the book Jakob describes a staff member at the school as like a monkey, but in the film a literal monkey takes the role of that staff member. In addition, while Jakob wonders about the activities of Herr and Lisa Benjamenta in the novel, the film clearly displays an incestuous relationship. The conclusion of the film, however, differs from the book. It shows Herr and Jakob's departure from the institute in surreal scene of the two in a fish bowl rather than Jakob's literal journey back to town in the book.


== Themes ==
The film has been described as thematically similar to a fairy tale, a fantasy, or a dream world. Writing in the journal Adaptation, David Sorfa argues that many of the projects of the Brothers Quay discuss the idea that a "metaphysical interior" may exist. Sorfa argues that this film does not attempt to reveal a hidden meaning, but rather argue that a realm of hidden meaning, though unreachable, may exist nonetheless.
Ariel Swartley of The New York Times has drawn a comparison between Jakob's efforts to "turn himself into a machine" as a servant and the animation of objects that the Brothers Quay have focused on in their previous stop-motion films. (Institute Benjamenta was their first live-action film). Stephen Quay has said that they sought to convey a similar sense of "otherness" through the actors as they had done through puppets in previous projects. Laura Marks has argued that "non-sentient life seems to take precedence over human life" and that the film includes a "tide of non-human life".
Sorfa contends that the number zero is used as a sort of parody of a MacGuffin in the film.


== Reception ==
The film has been compared to Eraserhead due to its unconventional narrative and black-and-white filming style. Parallels have also been drawn between the film and Expressionist film of the 1920s. Silke Horstkotte has argued that the gestures of the actors and surreal aspects of the school also recall silent film conventio