Anne Rice's Interview with the Vampire, or simply Interview with the Vampire, is an American gothic horror television series developed by Rolin Jones for AMC, based on the 1976 novel and elements from The Vampire Chronicles by Anne Rice. The series stars Jacob Anderson as Louis de Pointe du Lac and Sam Reid as Lestat de Lioncourt and begins with the vampire Louis recounting his past life and tumultuous relationship with the vampire Lestat. The series embraces the queer elements of Rice's work, which are only insinuated in the 1994 film adaptation of the novel, and deals with themes such as race and abuse. It is the first series set in the Immortal Universe, a shared universe based on Rice's novels.
Interview with the Vampire received a series order in June 2021, after AMC Networks purchased the rights to intellectual property encompassing 18 of Rice's novels in 2020. The series was renewed for an eight-episode second season in September 2022, ahead of the premiere of its first season on October 2, 2022. The second season premiered on May 12, 2024.
The series received positive reviews from critics, with praise going towards the writing, costumes, soundtrack, production design, lead performances and their chemistry.


== Premise ==
Interview with the Vampire centers on the life story of vampire Louis de Pointe du Lac, as told to veteran journalist Daniel Molloy, to whom he previously gave an unpublished interview in 1973. An affluent black man in the 1910s New Orleans, Louis is romanced and later made a vampire by the charismatic Lestat de Lioncourt. But Louis struggles with his humanity, and the introduction of Lestat's newest fledgling, the teenage vampire Claudia, only strains their relationship further. At present, Daniel begins to doubt the veracity of Louis' story, noting differences from the earlier version.


== Cast and characters ==


=== Main ===
Jacob Anderson as Louis de Pointe du Lac, a 145-year-old vampire who summons Daniel Molloy to redo their interview of 49 years earlier. In 1910, Louis is a 33-year-old closeted Black Creole man who turns to brothels business after his late father's financial bankruptcy. He is haunted by guilt and seethes at the racism directed at him.
Sam Reid as Lestat de Lioncourt, a hedonistic French vampire who falls in love with Louis upon his arrival in New Orleans. He later turns Louis into a vampire but is irritated by Louis' preoccupation with humans. His background of abuse at the hands of his family and maker makes him fearful of abandonment. Having read The Vampire Chronicles as a kid, Reid revisited the books and constantly referenced them as he prepared for the role. He also took singing and piano lessons to portray Lestat's musicality.
Eric Bogosian as Daniel Molloy, a cynical middle-aged journalist with Parkinson's disease and a long history of drug and alcohol abuse whose interview with Louis in 1973 ends with him being attacked.
Bailey Bass (season 1) and Delainey Hayles (season 2) as Claudia, a 14-year-old girl whom Lestat turns into a vampire at Louis' insistence to save her life. She forms a daughter-father relationship with the pair and struggles with her fate as an eternal teenager.
Assad Zaman as Armand, a 514-year-old vampire who is Louis' current lover. He saves Daniel's life during the first interview. Armand first appears under the disguise of Rashid, Louis' dutiful servant.
Ben Daniels as Santiago (season 2), the leading thespian of the vampiric troupe the Théâtre des Vampires, who is increasingly suspicious of Louis and Claudia.


=== Recurring ===
Kalyne Coleman as Grace de Pointe du Lac (now Freniere), Louis's married sister
John DiMaggio as Alderman Fenwick, a businessman looking to take advantage of Louis
Chris Stack as Thomas "Tom" Anderson, the owner of the Fair Play Saloon, an upscale brothel
Rae Dawn Chong as Florence de Pointe du Lac, Louis's widowed mother
Jeff Pope as Finn O'Shea, one of Louis's enforcers
Dana Gourrier as Bricktop Williams, a prostitut