Invasion of the Body Snatchers is a 1978 American science-fiction horror film directed by Philip Kaufman and starring Donald Sutherland, Brooke Adams, Veronica Cartwright, Jeff Goldblum, and Leonard Nimoy. Released on December 22, 1978, it is based on the 1955 novel The Body Snatchers by Jack Finney. The novel was previously adapted into the 1956 film of the same name. The plot involves a San Francisco health inspector and his colleague who over the course of a few days discover that humans are being replaced by alien duplicates; each is a perfect biological clone of the person replaced, but devoid of empathy and humanity.
Released in the United States over the Christmas weekend of 1978, Invasion of the Body Snatchers grossed nearly $25 million (equivalent to $117 million in 2023) at the American box office. It initially received varied reviews from critics, though its critical reception has significantly improved in subsequent years, receiving a 93% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and also being hailed as one of the greatest remakes ever, as well as one of the best science-fiction horror films of all time.


== Plot ==
A gelatinous parasitic alien race abandon their dying planet and travel to Earth, taking the form of small seed pods with pink flowers.
Elizabeth Driscoll, a laboratory scientist at the San Francisco Health Department, brings a flower home. She awakens the next morning to find her boyfriend, Geoffrey, being cold and distant while putting debris into a garbage truck. She confides to her colleague and friend Matthew Bennell that Geoffrey has changed and that she fears he is an impostor. Matthew advises Elizabeth to talk to his psychiatrist friend, David Kibner, who is promoting his new book at a bookstore. While driving there, a hysterical man warns Elizabeth and Matthew of danger as a mob pursues him. He is then killed in a hit and run, surrounded by emotionless onlookers.
At the book promotion event, Kibner reassures Elizabeth and another woman who shares similar misgivings about their significant others. Matthew's friend, Jack Bellicec, an eccentric aspiring writer, calls him to investigate when a mysterious embryonic adult-body resembling Jack is found in the mud spa he runs with his wife, Nancy. Matthew goes to warn Elizabeth, but discovers a semi-formed duplicate of her near the bedroom where she is sleeping. Matthew rescues Elizabeth and alerts the police, but when they arrive, Jack and Elizabeth's duplicates have disappeared.
Elizabeth deduces that the flowers are somehow involved and examines one at the health department offices. She finds no records of plants matching its description, while Matthew unsuccessfully attempts to alert several government agencies. They encounter several people who have been replaced by duplicates, while children around the city are being taken to also be duplicated. Matthew, Elizabeth, Jack, and Nancy nearly incur the same fate while hiding out in Matthew's apartment. After destroying their embryonic replacements, Matthew calls the police, but realizes duplicates have taken control.
The "pod people" – extraterrestrials emerging from later-stage pods that have taken the forms and memories of sleeping humans as the originals disintegrate – pursue Matthew's group. Jack and Nancy create a distraction while Matthew and Elizabeth escape back to the city and take refuge at the health department. They each take speed to remain awake. Jack and Kibner's duplicates ambush and inject them with sedatives while Kibner's duplicate explains the aliens' plan to replace humanity with serene, emotionless duplicates. Matthew escapes with Elizabeth after killing Jack's double and locking Kibner's in a freezer.
Matthew and Elizabeth find Nancy, who has evaded the pod people by hiding her emotions. This works until Elizabeth screams seeing a dog-human duplicate amalgam, the mutant byproduct of a damaged pod. In the commotion, they get separated from Nancy and board a truck delivering plants to Pier 70, 