The Island of Dr. Moreau is a 1996 American science fiction horror film, based on the 1896 novel The Island of Doctor Moreau by H. G. Wells. It was directed by John Frankenheimer (who was brought in half a week after shooting started) and stars Marlon Brando, Val Kilmer, David Thewlis, and Fairuza Balk. The screenplay is credited to the original director Richard Stanley and Ron Hutchinson. It is the third major film adaptation of the Wells novel, following Island of Lost Souls (1932) and The Island of Dr. Moreau (1977).
The production was notoriously difficult, marred by issues with the cast, harsh weather and a skyrocketing budget. Bruce Willis was originally hired to play Edward Prendick, but allegedly dropped out as he started divorce procedures from Demi Moore, his wife at the time. Willis was replaced by Kilmer, who made his availability limited, and later had anger issues with most of the cast after also being served divorce papers on set. Then actor Rob Morrow quit because of script rewrites.
Brando's role as Moreau was supposed to be expanded, but following his daughter's suicide, Brando retreated to his private island, leaving production in limbo, not knowing when or even if he would show up. Brando also did not want to learn his lines, so he requested them through an earpiece and/or improvised his dialogue. Original director Richard Stanley was dismissed by New Line Cinema after problems arose during production, including a major hurricane, with Frankenheimer being brought in to replace him. The film received generally negative reviews and was considered a box office bomb.
In 2014, the documentary Lost Soul: The Doomed Journey of Richard Stanley's Island of Dr. Moreau was released, covering Stanley's experiences while he conceived and developed the project, his time as director, and the aftermath of his departure and the effect it had on the cast, crew and overall film. Kilmer also shared some behind-the-scenes footage of the film in the 2021 documentary Val where he shared his side of events.


== Plot ==
United Nations negotiator Edward Douglas survives a plane crash in the Java Sea and is rescued by a passing boat. Aboard, Dr. Montgomery tends to him and, after telling him the boat has no radio, he promises Douglas the captain will take him to Timor. However, when they arrive at Montgomery's destination, referred to as "Moreau's Island", he instead advises Douglas to disembark so he can use the radio on the island.
Montgomery unloads a shipment of rabbits at a pen where he kills one for Douglas' meal. They go to the Main House, where Douglas is warned not to wander. He meets a daughter of Dr. Moreau's called Aissa, but Montgomery turns him away from her and leads him to his room. On the way, they discuss how Moreau vanished after becoming obsessed with his animal research. Montgomery locks Douglas in his room, for his own safety, but he escapes that night. After exploring briefly, he hears strange, moaning cries coming from nearby. He is curious and enters a laboratory building, and finds a room of medical equipment, incubation chambers and liquid-filled, cylindrical artificial “wombs”, containing what appear to be fetuses developing. He hears the cries again and, from a distance, watches in shock as a female human/llama mutant gives birth, with several doctors attending to the delivery.
Douglas’ presence is noticed by one of the male doctors—who peels back his face mask to reveal he is, also, a human/animal hybrid—and flees, finding Aissa who leads him to the ‘village’ of the mutants. Still confused and shocked by what he has witnessed, Aissa simply looks at him when he asks questions. The two find a partially-eaten rabbit and observe a leopard/human hybrid called Lo-Mai (also referred to by the nickname "Cheetah").
At the village, they find the ‘Sayer of the Law’—a generally benevolent goat/sheep/human hybrid with large, curled horns growing from his head, and hoof-like hands—whose Law preaches "being human" ins