It Could Happen to You is a 1994 American romantic comedy-drama film starring Nicolas Cage and Bridget Fonda. In a plot inspired by a real-life news story, a New York City police officer (Cage) who is short on cash and unable to tip his waitress (Fonda), half-jokingly offers to share his winnings if he happens to win the lottery.
Isaac Hayes is the film's narrator and also plays a supporting role as undercover reporter and photographer, Angel Dupree.
The film was remade in Hindi as Bade Dilwala, which was released in 1999 and in Telugu as Bahumati in 2007.


== Plot ==
Uniformed policeman Charlie Lang is kind and generous. He loves his job, and enjoys a strong rapport with the Queens neighborhood where he lives. His wife Muriel works in a hairdressing salon. Unlike Charlie, Muriel is greedy and selfish and materialistic; she constantly complains about their situation in life. 
Waitress Yvonne Biasi, also kind and generous, is newly bankrupt. Her estranged husband Eddie, whom she cannot yet afford to divorce, has taken Yvonne's credit card and spent 12 thousand dollars without her consent. The court holds her responsible for the entire bill; moreover, Yvonne's nasty boss docks her pay for the time she spent in court, even though Yvonne gave ample notice.
Yvonne hits it off with Charlie, while waiting on him at the diner where she works. Since Charlie doesn't have enough money for a tip, he offers Yvonne double the tip tomorrow...or, if she prefers, half of his prospective lottery winnings. He wins a $4 million share of a $64 million lottery prize the next day. Charlie makes good on his offer to split the prize with Yvonne, despite Muriel's protests. Charlie and Yvonne become instant celebrities; Muriel sees this as an opportunity to become a spokesperson for her favorite beauty products. 
Yvonne buys the diner where she works, and promptly fires her miserly ex-boss. She also sets up a table, with Charlie's name, at which people who cannot afford food can eat for free. Meanwhile, Charlie is wounded in the process of foiling two would-be-robbers at a grocery store. Following a well-deserved commendation, he takes mandatory leave from the NYPD.
Charlie and Yvonne are invited to a gathering, on a chartered boat, for the lottery winners...and also for numerous members of high society. Both Yvonne and Charlie miss the cruise because he had to go and make change for her taxi driver and bond over dinner. Muriel - who has become a bigger monster than ever in the face of sudden riches - doesn't realize Charlie has gone; she flirts with the wealthy Jack Gross. 
The media reports on Yvonne and Charlie treating numerous subway passengers to a free ride, and on them taking a sandlot baseball team to meet the New York Yankees. 
Muriel throws Charlie out of their apartment and demands a divorce, ostensibly because she's fed up with his charitable nature. That same evening, Yvonne leaves her apartment after her husband Eddie shows up - threatening to stay until and unless he gets $50 thousand from her (to start a business). Quite innocently, Charlie and Yvonne run into each other at the Plaza Hotel, where they wind up spending the night together.
At Muriel's and Charlie's divorce proceedings, she demands all the money that Charlie won for herself. Charlie acquiesces without protest, but then draws the line when she also demands all the money that he gave Yvonne. The case goes to court, which rules in Muriel's favor. 
Yvonne, feeling guilty at having bankrupted Charlie and wrecked his already-sour marriage, pushes him away. But he's now in love with her, insisting that he doesn't care about the money and is far better off without Muriel. Yvonne reciprocates. 
While ruminating about their future at Yvonne's closed diner, the new couple graciously provide a homeless man with soup at the Charlie Lang Table. This derelict is actually undercover photojournalist Angel Dupree, who is revealed to be the film's narrator; he takes photos of Yvonne and Cha