They Came from Outer Space is an American science fiction teen sitcom that aired in syndication from October 1990 to March 1991. The series was created by Tom McLoughlin.


== Synopsis ==
The series stars Dean Cameron as Bo, and Stuart Fratkin as Abe, two teenage fraternal twin aliens from the planet Crouton. They thwart their parents' plans to send them to Cambridge University, in Great Britain, and instead they decide to travel throughout California in their 1959 classic red Chevrolet Corvette, in an effort to pick up women and to learn more about life on Earth. They are pursued by a pair of bumbling U.S. Air Force officers, Lt Col. Tom Barker, and Lt. Pat "Monkey" Wilson, who would like to capture the two for scientific study.  Abe and Bo were constantly taking odd jobs to support themselves on their American road trip.


== Characters ==
Abewosiak "Abe" (Stuart Fratkin) was the more responsible, and serious, of the two brothers.  Much is made about the fact that Abe is still a virgin, and wishes to remain so until he is married.  His primary concern throughout the series seems to be where their next meal will come from.  He frequently complains that he is hungry.  However, due to his high Croutonian metabolism he can eat large quantities of food and never gain weight.
Boximaxio "Bo" (Dean Cameron) was the more fun loving of the brothers.  His primary interest seemed to be how many women he could get to have sex with him.  He seldom thinks about the consequences of his actions and usually gets Abe and himself into trouble.  It was his idea to go to California (instead of Britain) when he read that his favorite centerfold lived in Malibu.  He would wrestle control of the space ship from Abe and crash inside a California junk yard.
Lt Col. Tom Barker (Alan Royal)  was an Air Force officer charged with tracking down any extraterrestrial on Earth and turning them over to be dissected.  He was resentful of the fact that he was working in the UFO hunter unit, because he believed that it was beneath someone of his rank to be doing the job.  It is implied that he was put in the unit as punishment for embarrassing a senior officer.  Barker believes that if he catches the brothers he will be transferred out of the unit and possibly made a general.
Before the start of the series, he caught a pair of Croutonian sisters, the Patoolas, on which the government experimented.  This is presumably how he knew about Crouton physiology and abilities.  Abe and Bo knew about the capture of the sisters and it was one of the reasons Abe did not want to come to the United States.
Lt. Pat "Monkey" Wilson (Christopher Carroll) was the other Air Force officer hunting aliens on the team.  Wilson most likely was demoted from a higher rank down to lieutenant, when he was put into the unit.  He got the nickname "Monkey", due to an embarrassing story that he was reluctant to share.  The Colonel generally referred to him only as Wilson, but would call him Monkey when he wanted to put him down.
Throughout the series neither officer managed to capture the Crouton brothers.  This was due to their own incompetence, and the brothers using their various abilities to outwit them.
Mom and Dad (Rosalee Mayeux and Victor Brandt) were Bo and Abe's parents back on the planet Crouton.  When they crash landed on Earth, the twins saved their galactic communication device.  This enabled them to communicate, in real time, with audio and video with their parents back on the planet Crouton.  A couple of episodes ended with the brothers telling their parents how things were going in "England".  To complete the illusion, they would often place a poster in back of them showing familiar British landmarks, such as Big Ben, Oxford University, or Tower Bridge, while playing "Rule Britannia" in the background.  However, they were once almost found out when their father noticed that the Hands of Big Ben had not moved in the several minutes that they were talking.


== Crouton physiolog