John Jacob "Jack" Sugden is a fictional character from the British ITV soap opera Emmerdale. The character was originally played by Andrew Burt from 1972 to 1973 with a brief return in 1976, when the actor left for Italy to write a book. On his return in 1980 he was played by Clive Hornby. Hornby remained in the role until 2008 when he was forced to take a break from Emmerdale due to illness. His last on-screen appearance was on 21 February 2008, and his absence was explained by the character visiting his mother, Annie Sugden (Sheila Mercier) in Spain. Although Hornby was intended to return, he died from his illness in July 2008 without returning to the programme. Jack was written out following Hornby's death, dying off-screen of a heart attack in February 2009.


== Creation and casting ==
Jacob and Annie Sugden's son Jack is one of the original characters in Emmerdale. The Sugden family were the owners of Emmerdale Farm from the programme's early days. Jack and his younger siblings, Peggy Skilbeck and Joe all worked on the farm.
From the early days, Jack appeared to be a very rebellious and self-righteous character who cared little for others' views. He also has numerous flings with different women and failed marriages, due to his infidelity. Jack is an intelligent and articulate man but shown to keep secrets from his family. As time passed and Jack became a father, he has matured much more. He has firmly secured his roots in farming, which he originally tried so hard to escape from. Jack is still a man of principles and of pride, which can sometimes be his biggest weakness.
Jack was initially played by Andrew Burt, who appeared in over 100 episodes. Burt left the role in 1973 in order to work in the theatre again. Burt reprised the role in 1976. The role was then recast to Clive Hornby, who first appeared as Jack in 1980. Hornby departed the role due to ill health in 2008.
In 1997, Hornby was filming a scene which included Jack pushing a tractor when he got injured. He was rushed to hospital with a collapsed lung and spent eight days recovering. Speaking of the incident, Hornby said “It’s all right now but it made me realise that I never wanted to spend eight days again in a hospital."


== Storylines ==


=== 1972–1973 ===
Jack returns to Beckindale on the day of Jacob's funeral. He watches the procession from The Woolpack and
wanders around the farm. Following the funeral, Jack meets Marian Wilks and then enters the farmhouse and is met with a frosty reception from his sister, Peggy who resents Jack as he has returned to the village for the first time in eight years without a word and has inherited the farm, which has caused bad feeling between her and their brother, Joe. Jack's mother Annie tells him he is welcome to stay but must help. Later, Jack quarrels with Marian when he finds out her father Henry was a partner in a company that poisoned local fish and suggests it may have been done deliberately. Jack agrees to surrender the farm to Peggy but Annie insists Jack makes the farm work. Jack then takes an interest in an old Millhouse which has a preservation order on it and plans to restore it and later reside there. He also has many a heated discussion with Henry over land access. Wallace, a friend of Jack arranges a meeting between him and a mystery woman named Lynn. Around this time, Marian and Jack become close much to Joe's chagrin. When Lynn arrives, everyone is intrigued. Jack reveals that Lynn is his common-law wife from his time in London.
When Ruth, Tom and their children Jackie, Sandie and Tommy arrive in the village, Jack offers Tom a job as a farmhand but regrets it as Tom is proven to be lazy and fires him. Tom retaliates with blackmail, threatening to tell Marian that Jack is the biological father of his son, Jackie. Tom's suspicions come from Jackie's likeness to Jack, sharing the names John Jacob and knowing of Ruth's past relationship with Jack. Jack refuses to give in and fires Tom. Marian finds out a