The Jerky Boys are an American comedy act from Queens, New York City, New York, whose routine consists of prank telephone calls and other related skits. The duo was founded in 1989 by childhood friends Johnny Brennan and Kamal Ahmed. After Ahmed left the act in 2000, the Jerky Boys continued on as a solo act featuring only Brennan, before going on a 19-year hiatus after the 2001 release of the franchise's penultimate album, The Jerky Tapes. Brennan released a follow-up album of new material in November 2020.
The phone calls were made by calling unsuspecting recipients, or in response to classified advertisements placed in local New York–based newspapers. Each call was made in character, usually with over-the-top voices influenced by the duo's family members. Many compilations of the group's work have been released onto albums. According to the act's current record label, Laugh.com, the Jerky Boys have sold over 8,000,000 albums since their 1993 debut.


== History ==


=== Duo ===
Brennan began making and recording prank telephone calls in the 1970s, and teamed up with Ahmed, in the late 1980s/early 1990s in their Queens neighborhood. The duo made a number of bootleg tapes of their recorded phone calls that eventually were obtained by New York–based radio personality Howard Stern, who played the duo's tracks on the air.
The English rock band Radiohead named their debut album, Pablo Honey (1993), after a Jerky Boys sketch in which the caller poses as the victim's mother and says: "Pablo, honey? Please come to Florida." A sample of the sketch appears in the song "How Do You". The Radiohead singer, Thom Yorke, said: "The notion of phoning up people cold is so nineties. It's just the ultimate sacrilege – turn up in someone's life and they can't do anything about it."
The Jerky Boys gained notoriety from their exposure on The Howard Stern Show, and released their first album, The Jerky Boys, in 1993. The album topped the Billboard charts and was eventually certified double platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America.The duo released the double platinum, The Jerky Boys 2 in 1994, followed by The Jerky Boys 3 in 1996, The Jerky Boys 4 in 1997, Stop Staring at Me! in 1999, and The Jerky Tapes in 2001.
In 1995, the duo starred in Touchstone Pictures' The Jerky Boys: The Movie. The movie was filmed in 1993–94, and it was almost universally panned by critics. Kamal became an independent filmmaker in 1997.


=== Solo act ===
In 2000, tension between the two developed. The duo appeared in the Psychopathic Records film Big Money Hustlas, but because Brennan and Ahmed were unable to get along with each other, they did not share any scenes in the film; Brennan played a supporting role as the police chief, and Ahmed appeared in a cameo as Frank Kissel, an audience member at the strip club. By the end of the year, Ahmed passed a note down to the manager, who passed it to Brennan: Ahmed had decided to quit the group.
Ahmed released a solo album, Once a Jerk, Always a Jerk, in 2000.
On March 20, 2007, Brennan, who is now the only constant member of the group, kept the Jerky Boys name and released a solo album, Sol's Rusty Trombone, a collection of mostly ring tones and skits. On March 5, 2010, Brennan, in conjunction with Inner Four, released two apps for the iPhone and iPod Touch platform: The Jerky Boys Prank Caller, and The Jerky Boys Pinball. In late 2011, Brennan started a weekly podcast titled The Jerky Boys Show with Johnny Brennan in which he discussed the history of the calls, how the characters came about, and other hijinks. The podcast also gave the opportunity to fans to speak to Brennan directly. The podcast ran for 17 episodes and then abruptly ended in November 2012.  Brennan announced a subscription for new calls being regularly released each month but this never occurred.
He recorded new prank calls for a Rolling Stone retrospective in 2014.


== Regular characters ==

Frank Rizzo – an extremely abrasive, foul-mouth