Tom & Jerry (released as Tom & Jerry: The Movie in the United Kingdom) is a 2021 American live-action/animated slapstick comedy film based on the cartoon characters Tom and Jerry created by William Hanna and Joseph Barbera, produced by Warner Animation Group and distributed by Warner Bros. Pictures. It is the second theatrical film based on the characters, following Tom and Jerry: The Movie (1992). The film is directed by Tim Story and written by Kevin Costello. It stars Chloë Grace Moretz, Michael Peña, Colin Jost, Rob Delaney, Pallavi Sharda, Jordan Bolger, Patsy Ferran, and Ken Jeong in live-action roles, with Nicky Jam, Bobby Cannavale, and Lil Rel Howery in voice roles. The titular duo are voiced by William Hanna via archival recordings, with additional vocals from Kaiji Tang and André Sogliuzzo (though the characters are listed as themselves in the credits). Set in a world co-populated by humans and cartoon animals, the film follows Tom enlisted to catch Jerry, whose presence threatens New York City's fanciest hotel and its planned high-profile Indian-themed wedding.
Warner Bros. executives wanted the film to "be what Tom and Jerry is", as "the studio understands how much of its history is rooted in these iconic characters". From a live-action film in 2009, to an animated film in 2015, and to a hybrid film combining live-action and animation in 2018, the film was in development hell, as Warner Bros. tried finding a writer "to pen the right take on the characters". The film also draws inspiration from silent comedies, such as Charlie Chaplin films, as reference for the filmmakers to explore a lot of humor and storytelling associated with silent characters. Other cited influences for the film's story include Home Alone 2: Lost in New York and Dunston Checks In. Many elements from the original cartoons were featured in the film, such as their sound effects, Tom being a jazz pianist, Tom's Rube Goldberg mouse trap, Jerry's heartbeat, Jerry's theft of food and items, and some of William Hanna's voice tracks for the titular duo. The film pays homage to many Tom and Jerry shorts, including Mouse Trouble (1944), Mouse in Manhattan (1945), and The Cat Concerto (1947).
Tom & Jerry was theatrically released by Warner Bros. Pictures in the United States on February 26, 2021, alongside a one-month streaming release on HBO Max. The film received generally negative reviews from critics, and grossed $136.5 million worldwide, on a $50‒79 million production budget.


== Plot ==
A cat named Tom, who dreams of being a jazz pianist, moves to New York and buskes in Central Park, while a mouse named Jerry is in search of a new home. After Tom's piano is destroyed in an altercation, he chases Jerry, but accidentally tackles a young woman named Kayla Forester, causing her to lose her job. Down on her luck, Kayla wants to prove her talents and looks for a position at the city's fanciest hotel, the Royal Gate, where Jerry moves in and Tom fails to break in. Kayla, with a stolen resume, is hired to help plan a high-profile wedding and gets a tour of the hotel, while Jerry's usual antics involve stealing food and items to ramp up his new home, and Tom plans more strategies to enter the hotel and capture Jerry.
Local celebrities Preeta Mehta and her fiancé Ben are greeted, as they arrive, along with their pet dog Spike and cat Toots. All, except for Spike, are unaware of Jerry stealing from Preeta's handbag. As the couple and their pets are escorted to their room, Jerry's presence is revealed, which puts the wedding and the hotel at risk. Kayla offers to catch Jerry, but fails and realizes that he will be hard to catch. After many failed attempts, Tom successfully enters the hotel, and his ensuing chase after Jerry wrecks a hotel room. Due to noise complaints, Kayla comes to check and befriends Tom, due to their shared goal of catching Jerry. The hotel's owner and general manager Mr. Dubros hires Tom to exterminate Jerry, while Tom and Kayla's boss T