Joe Goldberg is a fictional character and protagonist of the You book series, written by Caroline Kepnes, as well as the television series of the same name, where he is portrayed by American actor Penn Badgley, by Gianni Ciardiello, Aidan Wallace and Jack Fisher as a youth, and as his inner self by Ed Speleers. Joe is a serial killer, stalker and former bookstore manager who, upon meeting Guinevere Beck at his workplace in New York, develops an extreme, toxic and delusional obsession with her. After moving to Los Angeles to escape his sordid past, he meets avid chef Love Quinn and falls into his old habits of obsession and violence in order to avoid the fate of his past romantic endeavors. As his troubled marriage with Love falls apart, he abandons his life in the United States and moves to London where he begins tracking down the Eat-the-Rich killer, while managing an infatuation with Kate Lockwood.


== Television series ==


=== Early life ===
At the story's outset, it is revealed that Joe was born in September 19th, in 1988 and was orphaned at a young age. From flashbacks, it is revealed that Joe's biological mother, named Sandy Librelato (Magda Apanowicz) was abused by his biological father, named Raphael Goldberg and that he was subjected to neglect and abuse by his father. Seeking to protect his mother, Joe (Aidan Wallace) shoots and kills his biological father. Sometime after, she tells him she is currently not fit to care for him and a Child Protection Services worker takes him and sends him to New York State's Irving Group Home For Boys.
After a few years in the foster care system, it's implied that Mr. Mooney (Mark Blum) adopted Joe (Gianni Ciardiello), took care of him and gave him a job at the bookstore. Though, it is later highlighted that Mooney subjected Joe to a similar abusive treatment, locking him in a plexiglass cage vault, below his bookstore, against his will. As part of his "lesson", Mooney would teach the value of reading and books to Joe, in order to show his affection and reverence towards such activities.


=== Season 1 ===

Joe, now the bookstore's manager, tries to win over MFA student Guinevere Beck (Elizabeth Lail) by manipulating everything and everyone around her. He justifies his actions by stating that in order to pursue Beck, he wants to make sure that she is worth it and will not break his heart. He continuously implies that a similar instance occurred in the past with his ex-girlfriend, Candace Stone (Ambyr Childers), who is presumed to be dead.
Joe is also good friends with his next-door neighbor, Paco (Luca Padovan), a boy who has an abusive home life and is always trying to escape by reading books. After Paco attempts to kill his mom’s boyfriend Ron (Daniel Cosgrove) by giving him an overdose of pills, Ron passes out outside Joe's apartment and savagely beats Joe upon waking. Paco's mother, Claudia (Victoria Cartagena) breaks up with Ron, with Joe's encouragement, but soon relapses back into drug addiction.
After a day of following Beck around in the shadows, Joe saves Beck after she falls on to a train track. At the same time, he steals her phone and after she replaces it, he is able to read her messages synced to the cloud. He believes her wealthy, spoiled boyfriend Benji Ashby (Lou Taylor Pucci) is an obstacle to his future relationship with Beck and tricks Benji into meeting him, hits him over the head, and keeps him captive in a climate-controlled cage for rare books in Mooney's basement. He eventually kills Benji using his peanut allergy to induce anaphylactic shock and burns his remains in the woods.
Joe and Beck start dating and he is introduced to her wealthy Ivy League friends. Her best friend, Peach Salinger (Shay Mitchell), is suspicious of his intentions and ridicules him for working in retail. Joe sees Peach as another obstacle in his relationship with Beck, so follows her in Central Park and hits her with a rock at the back of her head. He later kills her after she invit