Hotel Kalifornia is the eighth studio album by American rap rock band Hollywood Undead. It was released on August 12, 2022 through Dove & Grenade Media and BMG. The album was produced by No Love for the Middle Child.


== Background and promotion ==
On September 5, 2021, the band announced that they were working on new music for their upcoming eighth studio album. On February 25, 2022, a few months after the announcement, the band released the first single "Chaos". On April 20, the band unveiled second single "Wild in These Streets" and its corresponding music video.
On June 8, the band released the third single "City of the Dead". At the same time, they officially announced the album itself while also revealed the album cover, the track list and release date. On July 8, one month before the album release, the band unveiled the fourth single "Trap God". On March 1, 2023, the band released the fifth single "Evil" while also announcing the deluxe edition of the album which is set for release on April 28. On March 29, the band premiered the sixth single "Salvation". On April 25, the band published the seventh single "House of Mirrors" featuring Jelly Roll along with a music video.


== Critical reception ==

The album received mostly positive reviews from critics. Writing for Louder Sound, Nik Young calls the album "...an honest, confident and catchy release that winds up oddly hard to resist." New Noise gave the album 4 out of 5 and stated: "All in all, Hotel Kalifornia is an outstanding piece of work that is sure to keep fans entertained the whole way through." Wall of Sound gave the album a score 7/10 and saying: "While Hotel Kalifornia probably isn't going to win over any new fans, it is a consistently fresh addition of their bouncy nu-metal style that'll have you up on your feet as you crank up the volume to the limit. If you've enjoyed their previous albums, there's a pretty good chance of you giving this a go on your weekend drives outta town."


== Track listing ==

Notes

Track 1 is stylized in all caps.


== Personnel ==
Hollywood Undead

Jorel "J-Dog" Decker – vocals, guitars, bass, keyboards, programming, composition
Dylan "Funny Man" Alvarez – vocals, composition
George "Johnny 3 Tears" Ragan – vocals, bass, composition
Jordon "Charlie Scene" Terrell – vocals, guitars, composition
Daniel "Danny" Murillo – vocals, keyboards, programming, guitars, bass, composition
Additional musicians

Greg Garman – drums
Jelly Roll – guest vocals on track 20
Additional personnel

No Love for the Middle Child – production
Drew Fulk – production, composition on track 1
Erik Ron – production, composition on track 7
Andrew Migliore – production, composition on track 7
Zakk Cervini and Chris Athens – engineering
Michael Futterer – composition


== Charts ==


== References ==