Keys to Tulsa is a 1997 American crime film directed by Leslie Greif in his directorial debut, written by Harley Peyton, and starring Eric Stoltz and James Spader. It is based on the 1991 novel of the same name by Brian Fair Berkey. There is  an unrated version that runs 3 minutes longer than the theatrical release.


== Plot ==
The story revolves around a perpetual loser and slacker named Richter Boudreau. Richter is from a privileged background in Tulsa, Oklahoma, and works as a movie reviewer at a local newspaper only because his sour widowed mother Cynthia pulled strings for him to land the job. He is dissatisfied with the direction that his life has taken; he is about to be fired any day from his job because he can't meet deadlines, he lives in a dilapidated farmhouse, he uses and sells drugs behind the scenes for some extra cash, and he is so irresponsible with life and finances in which he has gotten so far behind on his bills that his electricity has just been cut off which ruins a blind date he has in the opening scene with a neurotic gold-digger named Trudy.
Richter also owes money to Ronnie Stover, an abusive drug dealer who he deals with. Ronnie is married to Vicky, a beautiful woman who was disowned by her socially prominent family for her involvement with Ronnie. Richter is still in love with Vicky despite having ended their relationship many years before. Vicky is the sister of Keith, a misogynistic alcoholic whose large inheritance fails to soothe his anger, loneliness, and depression. Cherry is an exotic dancer from Chicago who buys drugs from Ronnie and gets romantically involved with Richter.
Richter learns that Ronnie plans to blackmail Bedford Shaw, the son of a socially prominent businessman named Harmon Shaw, after Cherry tells Richter that Bedford Shaw murdered her friend, a stripper/prostitute, in a motel room and that she took photographs. Ronnie attempts to involve Richter by having him hold on to a mysterious black pouch and by exploiting Richter's newspaper connections. Richter wants no part of the blackmail scheme. But he gets in over his head when Keith discovers that Richter has been sleeping with Vicky.


== Cast ==


== Production and casting ==
Shooting occurred in both Dallas, Texas and Tulsa, Oklahoma, despite being set entirely in Tulsa. The scenes at the offices of Richter's newspaper were shot in the headquarters of the Dallas Observer.
For the role of Ronnie Stover, James Spader dyed his hair from light brown to black. Spader was friends with co-star Eric Stoltz, who also worked with him on The New Kids (1985) and 2 Days in the Valley (1996). Stoltz has said that Spader helped him get cast in 2 Days in the Valley, and that he in turn helped Spader get cast in Keys to Tulsa. Spader remembered that, "Eric just returned the favor with a movie we shot six months after 2 Days called Keys to Tulsa. He read the script and convinced the producer that I'd be great as a drug dealer." In an interview on the Dallas set of the film with Entertainment Tonight, Stoltz said he was excited to be working with Mary Tyler Moore, saying that "it's always a little shocking to look up and have a line like 'Oh Come on Mom', and you're looking at Mary Tyler Moore, and you think 'Oh, that's Mary Tyler Moore!'." In this same interview, Moore said she was moving away from television roles at the time because she believed that the medium didn't have the same impact that it was once did. Moore had not appeared in many theatrical films during the late 1980s and early-mid 1990s, saying in the interview that "it's not so much that I've been selective, as big screen has been selective. There aren't that many roles that are interesting, so I don't do this as often as I'd like to."


== Music ==
The soundtrack prominently features the Australian didgeridoo instrument, performed by Graham Wiggins. The scene where Joanna Going's character Cherry performs a strip routine includes the 1994 song "Little Suicides" by singer Lor