The King of Marvin Gardens is a 1972 American drama film. It stars Jack Nicholson, Bruce Dern, Ellen Burstyn and Scatman Crothers. It is one of several collaborations between Nicholson and director Bob Rafelson. The majority of the film is set in a wintry Atlantic City, New Jersey, with cinematography by László Kovács.
The title alludes to the Marven Gardens in Margate, New Jersey, and one of the properties in the Monopoly board game, which was based on the streets of Atlantic City.


== Plot ==
David and Jason are brothers. David is a depressive living with his grandfather in Philadelphia, where he runs a late-night radio talk show and the latter an extrovert con man working for gang boss Lewis in Atlantic City, where he lives with the manic depressive Sally, a former beauty queen and prostitute, and her stepdaughter Jessica, who entertains men alongside her mother. After no contact for 18 months, Jason asks David to come to Atlantic City for an opportunity to "make our fortune". David arrives and, after he is bailed out of jail, Jason persuades him to stay on in his hotel suite with the two women. He explains his scheme for a casino in Hawaii, and tells him that they will share the girls when they go there.
Tensions grow among the four as Jason seeks unsuccessfully to involve a Japanese syndicate of investors in his plans. The skeptical David has no faith in Jason's plan, while Jason chides David for wallowing in his dark, lonely depressed life. Jessica is being groomed for a beauty queen career by Sally in another improbable scheme but develops a mutual attraction with Jason. Sally, increasingly neurotic over losing her looks, burns her glamorous clothes, cuts off her hair and throws away her cosmetics. Jason starts packing to leave for Hawaii and tells Sally that he is going with Jessica and that she cannot come. Sally threatens to shoot David or Jason and, when Jason mocks her, shoots him dead in rage and despair. David escorts his brother's corpse home to Philadelphia by train.


== Cast ==


== Notable imagery ==
The film has several surreal scenes, including a conversation on horseback between David and Jason and a simulated Miss America pageant. The latter scene was filmed in the empty Atlantic City Convention Hall (now called Boardwalk Hall), which was at the time of its 1929 construction the largest clear-span covered space in the world. During the scene, Ellen Burstyn is shown playing the hall's historic pipe organ, which is the world's largest organ and reputedly the largest and loudest musical instrument ever built.


== Production ==
The King of Marvin Gardens was shot almost entirely on location in Atlantic City in the winter months of 1972. It is therefore of considerable historical significance as a visual record of the very last days of the city's "classic era" resort architecture. Many of the grand hotels shown in the film's exterior scenes were demolished during the next few years to make way for the new generation of casino-hotels that were built after the legalization of gambling. Filming took place only months before the vast Traymore Hotel was explosively demolished in April 1972, and the movie's main location, the once-opulent Marlborough-Blenheim Hotel was demolished in 1978 to make way for Bally's Atlantic City.
The portion of the film depicting Philadelphia was shot in Toronto. The apartment the Scatman Crothers character, Lewis, occupied is located at Jarvis and Isabella Streets in Toronto. It was in an old mansion that had been converted to apartments.
The title of the film (which originally was to be called The Philosopher King) is an ironic reference to the original version of the board game Monopoly, in which the main properties were named after locations in Atlantic City. This reference was also reflected in the film's original poster art.
According to actress Ellen Burstyn, who portrays Sally in the film, Jack Nicholson was originally cast as Jason and Bruce Dern as David. During rehearsal, 