Koyaanisqatsi is a 1982 American non-narrative documentary film directed and produced by Godfrey Reggio, featuring music composed by Philip Glass and cinematography by Ron Fricke.
The film consists primarily of slow motion and time-lapse footage (some of it in reverse) of cities and many natural landscapes across the United States. The visual tone poem contains neither dialogue nor a vocalized narration: its tone is set by the juxtaposition of images and music. Reggio explained the lack of dialogue by stating "it's not for lack of love of the language that these films have no words. It's because, from my point of view, our language is in a state of vast humiliation. It no longer describes the world in which we live." In the Hopi language, the word koyaanisqatsi means "life out of balance".
It is the first film in The Qatsi Trilogy, which was followed by Powaqqatsi (1988) and Naqoyqatsi (2002). The trilogy depicts different aspects of the relationship between humans, nature and technology. Koyaanisqatsi is the best known of the trilogy and is considered a cult film. However, because of copyright issues, the film was out of print for most of the 1990s. In 2000, the film was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress for being "culturally, aesthetically, or historically significant".


== Synopsis ==
Koyaanisqatsi runs for 86 minutes and consists of a montage of visuals accompanied by a minimalist score, without narration or dialogue.  It opens with an ancient cave painting, followed by a close-up of a rocket launch, while a deep bass voice chants the film's title. The images dissolve into a sequence of landscapes with large geological formations in the deserts of the Southwestern United States.  Time-lapse imagery shows shadows moving across the landscapes at fast speeds, and birds are seen and heard flying out of a cave. 
The next sequence primarily features clouds moving in time-lapse, in addition to a waterfall, an ocean, and its waves in slow-motion.  This segues into footage of reservoirs, cultivated flowers, surface mining operations, electrical transmitters, power stations, evaporation ponds, a hydroelectric dam, oil drilling, metalworking, and concludes with a nuclear weapon test forming a mushroom cloud over the desert.
The following sequence begins with sunbathers on a beach next to a power plant, followed by tourists visiting another power plant.  The next images show clouds reflected on the façade of a glass skyscraper, Boeing 747 aircraft taxiing at an airport, cars driving on urban freeways, and various types of military vehicles.
Destruction of large buildings is depicted, including the one at the Pruitt-Igoe housing project in St. Louis. A time-lapse of a crowd queueing is followed by shots of people walking along streets in slow motion.
The next sequence features a sunset reflected in the glass of a skyscraper, before depicting people interacting with modern technology. Traffic, rush hours, technology-aided labors are depicted viscerally. The sequence begins to come full circle as the manufacture of cars in an assembly-line factory is shown. Daylight highway traffic are shown, followed by the movement of cars, shopping carts, televisions in an assembly line, and elevators. Time-lapses of various television shows being channel surfed are shown. In slow motion, several people react to being candidly filmed; the camera stays on them until the moment they look directly at it. Cars then move speedier.

Shots of microchips and satellite photography of cities are shown, comparing the lay of each of them. Night shots of buildings are shown, as well as of people from all walks of life, from beggars to debutantes. A rocket in flight explodes, and the camera follows one of its engines as it falls back towards Earth. The film concludes with another image of the Great Gallery pictograph, this time with smaller figures.
Preceding the closing credits, the end title card sho