Ladybird, Ladybird is a 1994 British drama film directed by Ken Loach, starring Crissy Rock and Vladimir Vega. The film received positive reviews from critics, and Rock won the Silver Bear for Best Actress award at the 44th Berlin International Film Festival.


== Plot ==
In a London karaoke bar some time around 1987, Maggie Conlan, a woman with a troubled past, meets Paraguayan immigrant Jorge and has a drink with him. A flashback reveals that Maggie witnessed her father beating her mother, and she confesses to Jorge (whom she calls George) that her four children, all with different fathers, are in the care of social services. Maggie leaves but forgets her wallet, which Jorge returns to her after chasing down her bus. The pair go to a pizza restaurant, then return to Jorge's apartment, where Maggie tells Jorge about her experiences with her abusive, alcoholic ex-boyfriend Simon. In a flashback, Maggie and her children move into a women's refuge. Back in the present, the two begin to kiss but Maggie grows hysterical and attempts to storm out of Jorge's apartment, revealing her unresolved feelings of loss for her children. In a flashback, Maggie is singing in a club when she is called home by the bartender and discovers that there has been a fire at the refuge and her son Sean has been injured in the fire. Maggie goes to the hospital where she is interviewed by the police, who are concerned that Maggie left the children alone. She claims to have left the key with her friend Jill because of the rowdy children at the refuge, but Jill does not recall this. After the fire, Sean is placed in foster care. Maggie visits him and is micromanaging and rude to his foster mother, Mary, whom she accuses of trying to keep her son for herself. Maggie goes up and sees Sean, but causes him pain when she improperly tries to change his bandages.
Back in the present, Maggie and Jorge have sex. In another flashback, Maggie meets with a pair of social workers, who tell her that she needs to be assessed at a halfway house in order to have a chance at receiving Sean back, to which she is resistant. She eventually gives in and goes to the halfway house, but leaves almost immediately after seeing an altercation with another patient. Now a quasi-fugitive, Mairead says she cannot stay with her family, and Maggie says she cannot return to the refuge. This leads to her returning to Simon, with whom she plans to leave town and hide at Simon's sister's house. As they are leaving, a social worker confronts Maggie and tells her that she will lose her children if she flees the city, but Maggie leaves anyway. Simon insists that they stop and collect Maggie's government welfare check, but she fears that the authorities will find them. Simon kicks her out of the van and assaults her, and she leaves the children in Simon's van where they later taken by the police. Back in the present, Jorge reveals that he is a political refugee from Paraguay, and has not returned for fear he will be killed due to his dissident views. He also reveals that he has a wife back in Paraguay, but has been away so long that he is not sure whether or not they are still married.
At Maggie's court hearing, a testifying doctor says she believes that Maggie loves her children, but is not capable of properly caring for them, citing her history with Simon. Maggie begins to audibly protest, and runs out of the courtroom to tell Jorge that the court has taken all her children from her. Jorge, meanwhile, reveals that his visa has expired and he will stay in England as an illegal alien, tearing up his plane tickets and declaring his commitment to Maggie, who is later revealed to be pregnant with Jorge's child. The pair move into a new flat, where Jorge inadvertently meets their irascible neighbor, Mrs. Higgs. Jorge acquires an under-the-table job at a chicken restaurant, and returns home to Maggie, who has a breakdown when she sees an adoption advertisement in the newspaper for Sean. Maggie and Jorge