Ladyhawke is a 1985 medieval fantasy film directed and produced by Richard Donner and starring Matthew Broderick, Rutger Hauer and Michelle Pfeiffer. The story is about a young thief who becomes unwillingly involved with a warrior and his lady who are hunted by the Bishop of Aquila. As he learns about the couple's past and secret, he chooses to help them overcome the Bishop's forces, and to lift an infernal curse.
In the same year, Joan D. Vinge published a novelization of the film, also titled Ladyhawke.


== Plot ==
In medieval Italy, Phillipe Gaston, a thief known as "The Mouse", escapes from the Bishop of Aquila's dungeons before execution. He is recaptured at an inn by the Bishop's guards, led by Captain Marquet. The former captain, Etienne Navarre, shows up and defeats Marquet and his guards. As Navarre and Phillipe flee on horseback, Navarre's hawk scatters the other guards, aiding the escape.
Navarre and Phillipe ask for lodging at a farmer's barn. At dusk, the farmer sneaks up on Phillipe with an axe but gets killed by an enormous black wolf. Phillipe runs back to the barn to get Navarre's help. Instead he sees a beautiful young woman dressed in Navarre's cloak. She walks out and keeps company with the wolf.
Days later Navarre reveals he seeks to kill the Bishop, and asks Phillipe to help him get inside Aquila. Phillipe refuses and gets tied up to a tree. That night Phillipe sees the woman again and tricks her into cutting his bond. Phillipe gets caught by the Bishop's guards again the next day. He tells them Navarre is riding to Aquila.
The guards set up an ambush for Navarre. While Phillipe's attempt at escape alerts Navarre to the ambush, both Navarre and his hawk get hit by crossbows, and the hawk falls from the sky. Navarre fights on and manages to defeat the guards. The injured Navarre orders Phillipe to ride his horse and take the debilitated hawk to the ruined castle of a monk named Imperius for help.
Imperius sequesters the hawk in a room, but a curious Phillipe picks the lock and finds the beautiful woman inside, her chest struck with a crossbow bolt. After tending to her wound, Imperius explains that she is Isabeau of Anjou, who once refused the Bishop's unwelcome advances. After a drunken Imperius leaked the fact that Navarre and Isabeau had secretly wedded, the enraged Bishop put the couple under a satanic curse which turns Isabeau into a hawk by day and Navarre a wolf by night. Even though they stay by each other, the curse keeps them eternally apart.
The ruined castle is invaded by the Bishop's guards at daybreak. They chase Isabeau and Phillipe up a tower, and Isabeau falls over its edge. Despite Phillipe's effort to hold onto her, she falls after all, but gets transformed and saved by the first sunlight and flies away as a hawk.
Navarre catches up to the castle and dispatches the last of the guards. Imperius tells him that the curse can be broken if the couple face the Bishop as humans on "a day without a night and a night without a day". Navarre dismisses Imperius as an old drunk, and continues on his way to Aquila, intent on simply killing the Bishop for revenge. Phillipe volunteers to join Navarre and "Ladyhawke", and bids Imperius to follow them.
After the group's perilous encounter with Cezar, a wolf trapper sent by the Bishop, and Phillipe saving the Navarre-wolf from a frozen river, Phillipe convinces the couple to try breaking the curse. At night, Imperius and Isabeau smuggle the Navarre-wolf into Aquila, while Phillipe dives through the sewers to get to the cathedral.
Seeing no divine sign on the day that he and Isabeau are to appear as humans together, Navarre reverts to his original plan to kill the Bishop. He asks Imperius to euthanize the Isabeau-hawk should the cathedral bells ring, which would mean he had failed.
Phillipe infiltrates the cathedral and unlocks its doors. Navarre rides in and duels with Marquet. Suddenly noticing a solar eclipse through a window, Navarre realizes Imperius