The Land Before Time III: The Time of the Great Giving is a 1995 direct-to-video animated adventure musical film directed by Roy Allen Smith. It is the second sequel to The Land Before Time and the third film in the film franchise.


== Plot ==
A meteorite impacts near Great Valley, which causes a drought to threaten the dinosaurs' lives. The increasing lack of water causes conflicts between the inhabitants of Great Valley, who have previously lived in relative peace and harmony. When the inter-species situation deteriorates, Littlefoot and the others set out to find water to keep the peace in the valley. They are pursued by a trio of arrogant teenage dinosaurs consisting of Hyp the Hypsilophodon, Mutt the Muttaburrasaurus, and Nod the Nodosaurus, who also inadvertantly cause the adults to separate Littlefoot and his friends from each other after an incursion with the bullies makes the adults think Littlefoot is a bad influence on his friends. When Littlefoot and the others find a small lake, the bullies emerge and claim the waterhole for themselves, demanding Littlefoot and the others to keep silent about their discovery. Unwilling to comply, Littlefoot and the others flee from the bullies. During the pursuit, the bullies are chased away by a wasp, and the children discover the reason behind the blockage of the water source.
Before they can return and tell the other inhabitants the truth, lightning hits a tree, and ignites a wildfire that spreads rapidly throughout the valley. The fire then devastates the valley destroying most of the green food. The dinosaurs barely make it to safety at the edge of Mysterious Beyond. When the children tell the adults of their discovery, disagreements about what to do erupts among the adults, preventing them from doing anything to utilize this knowledge. Hyp, Nod, and Mutt set out into Mysterious Beyond on their own to get to the water first. Anticipating the danger Hyp and his cohorts have gotten into and recognizing commonality with them, Littlefoot and the others follow to help if necessary. It becomes so when Hyp jumps into a tar pit after mistaking it for water. Littlefoot and his friends hatch a plan to haul Hyp out. Finally, Littlefoot and the others haul him out of the tar. Soon afterwards, the adults arrive, and Hyp is harshly scolded by his aggressive and grumpy father, making Cera's own stubborn father to finally realize that he too has also been too hard on Cera and accepts her friendships with Littlefoot and the other children, he then advises Hyp's father to be softer on his son, afterwards they all decide to work together to find the water.
Before they are able to take further steps, the herd is suddenly attacked by a pack of Velociraptors. The pursuit leads to a dam of boulders created by the rock slide that caused the drought. As the raptors and the adults battle, the children, including Hyp and his cronies, work together to break the dam. They all watch as the freed water washes away the raptors. The water also puts out the fires which are still burning in the valley. Finally, they manage to survive and land on the opposite bank. Now the herd is able to return to Great Valley. The herd returns to Great Valley, which now has enough water for them. However, when they return home, the fire has destroyed most of their green food. The now devastated plants in the valley are beyond repair from the fire. Despite being irreparable, the dinosaurs find the spots in Great Valley where lots of green food still grows. They proportionately move from one verdant area to another and share everything they find. This pattern results in the event being called the Time of the Great Giving.


== Voice cast ==

Scott McAfee as Littlefoot
Candace Hutson as Cera
Heather Hogan as Ducky
Jeff Bennett as Petrie / Mutt / Iguanodon
Rob Paulsen as Spike / Kosh
Whit Hertford as Hyp
Scott Menville as Nod
Kenneth Mars as Grandpa Longneck
Linda Gary as Grandma Longneck / Mother Quetzalcoatlus
Nicholas Guest a