The Last Picture Show is a 1971 American coming-of-age drama film directed and co-written by Peter Bogdanovich, adapted from the semi-autobiographical 1966 novel The Last Picture Show by Larry McMurtry. The film's ensemble cast includes Timothy Bottoms, Jeff Bridges, Ellen Burstyn, Ben Johnson, Cloris Leachman, and Cybill Shepherd. Set in a small town in northern Texas from November 1951 to October 1952, it is a story of two high-school seniors and long-time friends, Sonny Crawford (Bottoms) and Duane Jackson (Bridges).
The Last Picture Show was theatrically released on October 22, 1971, by Columbia Pictures. It was a critical and commercial success, grossing $29 million on a $1.3 million budget, and was nominated for eight Academy Awards, including Best Picture, Best Director, Best Supporting Actor for Johnson and Bridges, and Best Supporting Actress for Burstyn and Leachman, with Johnson and Leachman winning.
Bogdanovich directed a 1990 sequel, Texasville, based on McMurtry's 1987 novel of the same name and featuring much of the original film's cast reprising their roles; Texasville failed to match the critical or commercial success of its predecessor. In 1998, the Library of Congress selected The Last Picture Show for preservation in the United States National Film Registry for being "culturally, historically or aesthetically significant."


== Plot ==
In 1951, Sonny Crawford and Duane Jackson are high-school seniors and friends in tiny Anarene, a declining oil town in northern Texas. Duane is dating Jacy Farrow, the richest and prettiest girl in town. Sonny breaks up with his girlfriend Charlene Duggs. He is secretly in love with Jacy.
At a Christmas dance, Jacy is invited by Lester Marlow to a skinny-dipping party at the home of Bobby Sheen, a wealthy young man who seems to be a better prospect than Duane. At the same dance, Sonny kisses Ruth Popper, the depressed middle-aged wife of his high-school coach. Jacy lies to Duane and ends up going to the skinny-dipping party, doing a striptease on top of the diving board. Bobby later makes an advance on her, but then says he will not have sex with girls who are still virgins.
A group of boys including Duane and Sonny take their young, mentally disabled friend, Billy, to a prostitute to lose his virginity. The woman complains heavily, and when Billy leaves the car, his nose is bleeding. When the group takes Billy back home, local businessman Sam "The Lion" is angered by the group’s treatment of Billy. They try to explain their actions, but Sam forbids the group from entering any of his businesses, the only entertainment sources of Anarene: the pool hall, the movie theater, and the café. Later, Sam notices that Sonny actually takes good care of Billy and accepts Sonny back into the cafeteria for a cheeseburger.
During the weekend of New Year's Eve, Duane and Sonny go on a road trip to Mexico. Before they drive off, Sam wistfully wishes he still had the stamina to join them and gives them some extra money so they can enjoy themselves. The boys return two days later, hung over and tired, and learn that Sam has died suddenly of a stroke. Sam’s will left the movie theater to the lady who ran the concession stand, the café to Genevieve, $1,000 to the preacher's son Joe Bob Blanton, and the pool hall to Sonny.
Jacy finally invites Duane to a motel room to have sex, because she wants Bobby to accept her into his libertine circle, but Duane is unable to get an erection. She gets angry at Duane but they try again. She then breaks up with Duane by telephone. Soon after, Jacy learns that Bobby has already married another girl. Out of boredom and a sense of rejection, Jacy has sex with Abilene, a roughneck foreman who works for her father and is also her mother's lover. After the act, Abilene leaves Jacy at home and is brutally cold towards her. After entering the house, Jacy is caught by her mother Lois and starts crying. They both complain about the brutality of men and mention how nice J