Last Man Standing is an American sitcom created by Jack Burditt for ABC and Fox. It aired from October 11, 2011, to March 31, 2017, on ABC, and then again from September 28, 2018, to May 20, 2021, on Fox. The show starred Tim Allen as an executive at a sporting goods store chain headquartered in Denver, Colorado, who is a married father of three daughters and a grandfather to his eldest daughter's son. Last Man Standing was a joint production by 21 Laps-Adelstein Productions, NestEgg Productions, and 20th Television.
The series originally ran on ABC from 2011 to 2017 for six seasons, and entered syndication in 2015. The network did not renew Last Man Standing for a seventh season in May 2017, amid controversy.  In 2018, Fox announced it had picked up the show for a seventh season, which premiered on September 28, 2018. In May 2020, Fox renewed the series for a ninth and final season, which premiered on January 3, 2021, and aired through May 20, 2021.


== Premise ==
The series follows Mike Baxter, a senior executive and director of marketing for an outdoor sporting goods store chain based in Denver, Colorado. His home life is initially filled with his wife and three daughters (hence the "last man" in the show's title), along with a grandson. His life later extends to the young men who are married to or dating his daughters.


== Episodes ==


== Cast and characters ==


=== Main ===
Tim Allen as Michael Martin "Mike" Baxter: Mike is a father of three daughters and the director of marketing for the Outdoor Man chain of sporting goods stores. Mike staunchly supports traditional, conservative values.
Nancy Travis as Vanessa Baxter (née Davidson), Mike's wife: Vanessa is a geologist working in the energy industry. In season four, Vanessa becomes frustrated with her job and decides to become a high-school science teacher. After being laid off as a teacher due to budget cuts, Vanessa begins her own tutoring business.
Alexandra Krosney (season 1) and Amanda Fuller (seasons 2–9) as Kristin Beth Baxter Vogelson, the oldest daughter, initially a teenage mother trying to raise her son on her own.
Molly Ephraim (seasons 1–6) and Molly McCook (seasons 7–9) as Amanda Elaine "Mandy" Baxter-Anderson, the learning-impaired, fashion-focused middle daughter.
Kaitlyn Dever (regular, seasons 1–6; recurring, seasons 7–9) as Eve Baxter, the youngest daughter, a strong scholar and athlete with military aspirations, and allegedly Mike's favorite child.
Christoph Sanders as Kyle Anderson, a young employee at Outdoor Man and later Mandy's husband.
Héctor Elizondo as Edward "Ed" Alzate, Mike's longtime business partner, of Basque heritage, and later Vanessa's step-father.
Evan and Luke Kruntchev (recurring, season 1), Flynn Morrison (regular, seasons 2–6), and Jet Jurgensmeyer (regular, season 7; guest star, season 8) as Boyd Baxter, son of Kristin and Ryan and grandson of Mike and Vanessa.
Nick Jonas (guest star, season 1) and Jordan Masterson (recurring, seasons 2–3; regular, seasons 4–9) as Ryan Vogelson, Boyd's Canadian father who later re-enters his son's life and marries Kristin. He is very "left-wing" in his views, and thus clashes a lot with Mike.
Jonathan Adams as Charles Marion "Chuck" Larabee (recurring, seasons 2–3; regular, seasons 4– ): Mike and Vanessa's neighbor, a retired U.S. Marine who later becomes the head of security at Outdoor Man.
Krista Marie Yu as Jen (seasons 7–9), Vanessa's ethnocentric foreign-exchange student from Hong Kong who moves in with the Baxters in season 7.


=== Recurring ===
Robert Forster as Bud Baxter (seasons 1, 3–4, 7), Mike's widower father. Forster died October 11, 2019, prior to season 8.
Erika Alexander (seasons 2–5) and Tisha Campbell (season 7–9) as Carol Larabee, Chuck's wife and Mike and Vanessa's neighbor.
Carla Jimenez as Blanca Alvarez (seasons 2–4), the Baxters' Guatemalan-born housekeeper who also helps Mandy with her fashion business.
Sarah Gilman as Cammy Harris (seasons 2–6), Eve's soccer teamm