Laura Juliet Kuenssberg (born 8 August 1976) is a British journalist who presents the BBC's flagship Sunday morning politics show.
She succeeded Nick Robinson as political editor of BBC News in July 2015, and was the first woman to hold the position. Kuenssberg stepped down as political editor on 6 May 2022, after reporting on the 2022 United Kingdom local elections. She went on to replace Andrew Marr as the host of the BBC's weekend political interview programme, which was rebadged with the name Sunday with Laura Kuenssberg in September 2022.
Kuenssberg had previously served as the BBC's chief political correspondent and was the first business editor of ITV News. She was also the chief correspondent for Newsnight between February 2014 and July 2015.


== Early life and education ==
Kuenssberg was born in Rome, Italy in 1976 to Nick and Sally Kuenssberg. She grew up in Glasgow with her brother and sister, and attended Laurel Bank School before going on to study History at the University of Edinburgh, where she graduated with a first-class honours degree and an MA. During her degree she spent a year studying at Georgetown University in Washington, D.C., where she interned at NBC.
Her Edinburgh-born father, Nick Kuenssberg, was a businessman, investor, and academic; while her mother worked in children's services and received an OBE for this in the 2000 New Year Honours. Her paternal grandfather was German-born Ekkehard von Kuenssberg (CBE), a co-founder and president of the Royal College of General Practitioners. Her maternal grandfather was Lord Robertson, a judge of the Scots High Court of Justiciary, whose brother James Wilson Robertson was the last British Governor-General of Nigeria. Her elder brother David was an executive director of finance and resources at Brighton and Hove City Council. Her elder sister Joanna Kuenssberg is a former diplomat who has served as high commissioner to Mozambique.


== Career ==
Kuenssberg won the regional Royal Television Society "Most Promising Newcomer" award in 2001 while working as home affairs correspondent for BBC North East and Cumbria.
In 2009, she was appointed chief political correspondent for the BBC. Kuenssberg reported for BBC One bulletins, Daily Politics and the BBC News channel. In May 2010, her presence on BBC Television was so ubiquitous in the period between the 2010 United Kingdom general election and the formation of the Cameron–Clegg coalition, that journalist David Aaronovitch coined the term "Kuenssbergovision".
Kuenssberg took up the newly created role of business editor for ITV News. She also contributed towards business reporting on ITV's current affairs strand, Tonight.
On 12 November 2013, it was announced that she would leave ITV to return to the BBC as chief correspondent and a presenter of Newsnight, replacing Gavin Esler in the latter role. She joined the Newsnight team in February 2014.
Between the 2017 United Kingdom general election and Brexit in 2020, Kuenssberg also co-presented the BBC's Brexitcast podcast alongside Katya Adler, Adam Fleming, and Chris Mason, which was then retitled as the Newscast podcast.
In September 2023, Kuenssberg presented Laura Kuenssberg: State of Chaos; a three-part political documentary series, that aired on BBC2.
On 28 May 2024, Kuenssberg was announced as the host of the BBC's election night coverage for the 2024 United Kingdom general election, alongside Clive Myrie.


=== BBC political editor ===
She was appointed in July 2015 as the BBC's political editor, the first woman to hold the position. In January 2016, Kuenssberg was involved in arranging for the Labour MP Stephen Doughty to publicly announce his resignation as a shadow foreign office minister on Daily Politics. The incident was the subject of an official complaint from Seumas Milne, the Labour Party's director of communications, which was rejected by Robbie Gibb, then the BBC's head of live political programmes.
In December 2016, Kuenssberg said a source had to