Liar Liar is a 1997 American fantasy comedy film directed by Tom Shadyac and written by Paul Guay and Stephen Mazur. It stars Jim Carrey as a lawyer who built his entire career on lying but finds himself cursed to speak only the truth for a single day, during which he struggles to maintain his career and to reconcile with his ex-wife and son whom he alienated with his pathological lying.
The film is the second of three collaborations between Carrey and Shadyac—the first being Ace Ventura: Pet Detective and the third being Bruce Almighty—the second of three collaborations between Guay and Mazur—the others being The Little Rascals and Heartbreakers—and the first of three collaborations between Carrey and producer Brian Grazer, the other two being How the Grinch Stole Christmas (2000) and Fun with Dick and Jane (2005).
The film was released to critical and commercial success, grossing $302.7 million against a budget of $45 million and earning positive reviews from critics and audiences, who particularly praised Carrey's performance. At the 55th Golden Globe Awards, he was nominated for Best Actor in a Comedy.


== Plot ==
Fletcher Reede is a lawyer and divorcé living in Los Angeles, who loves spending time with his young son, Max. However, Fletcher also has a habit of giving precedence to his career, breaking promises to Max and his ex-wife, Audrey, and then lying about the reasons, which has made him a successful defense lawyer at his firm. After Fletcher misses Max's birthday party when senior partner Miranda lures him to get promoted by having sex in the office, Max makes a birthday wish for Fletcher to be unable to lie for a single day, which immediately comes true.
Fletcher soon discovers, through a series of embarrassing incidents, that he is unable to lie, mislead, or withhold the truth, to the point that his body physically resists the effort to write a false statement. These incidents alienate Fletcher from both Miranda and his secretary Greta, get his car impounded when he confesses all of his traffic infractions and unpaid tickets to a policeman, and cause him an inability to bend the truth in court.
Fletcher's newest client is Samantha Cole, a gold digger who wants a net sum from her soon-to-be ex-husband, Richard Cole. The main witness, Kenneth Falk, with whom Samantha has been cheating, is eager to lie in court to win, but Fletcher cannot suborn perjury. Meanwhile, Audrey is planning to move to Boston with her fiancé, Jerry, and decides to take Max with them to protect him from any future disappointments that Fletcher may cause him.
Fletcher tries desperately to delay the case, even beating himself up in the bathroom, but is unable to lie his way into a continuance. Knowing that he cannot deny the proof of Samantha's adultery, he successfully disputes the validity of her prenuptial agreement after overhearing her reveal her actual age, he discovers that she signed it as a minor without parental consent. This entitles Samantha to 50% of Richard's marital assets, allowing Fletcher to win the case truthfully. However, Samantha also insists on contesting custody of their children for an extra $10,000 in monthly child support payments. A disheartened Fletcher, realizing that he corrupted Samantha with his lies, watches as she pulls her crying children out of Richard's arms. Horrified, Fletcher demands that the decision be reversed, but his attitude angers the judge and he is arrested for contempt of court. Fletcher calls Audrey to bail him out, but she informs him that their plane leaves for Boston that night. Greta learns of this and, having realized that Fletcher turned over a new leaf, pays his bail.
Recognizing Max as his highest priority, Fletcher rushes to the airport, but Audrey and Max's plane has already left the gate. In desperation, he hijacks a mobile stairway to pursue the plane onto the runway. After throwing one of his shoes at the plane's windshield, he is able to get the plane to stop, but is injured aft