Light of Day is a 1987 American musical drama film starring Michael J. Fox, Gena Rowlands and Joan Jett in her film debut. It was written and directed by Paul Schrader. The original music score was composed by Thomas Newman and the cinematography is by John Bailey.


== Plot ==
Siblings Patti and Joe Rasnick perform in a rock band, The Barbusters, based in Cleveland, Ohio. As a single mother, Patti is estranged from her religious parents and struggles to provide for her son, Benji, while Joe works at a manufacturing plant to help support his sister and nephew.
Prior to a band performance, Patti breaks into a home and steals a set of tools to pay for a Peavey mixing board, arriving just in time to start the set. At work the next day, Joe is confronted by his coworker Smittie, whose brother-in-law was the target of the burglary, demanding payment. Joe agrees to pay the $600 on his sister's behalf, asking his mother, Jeanette, for a loan. She reluctantly agrees, concerned about Joe covering for Patti's numerous past mistakes.
On repaying Smittie, Joe finds that he has been laid off. He and Patti agree that their best option is to take The Barbusters on a tour. They depart, taking Benji with them. The tour appears to be successful, but struggling with finances, each earns only $57 per member after a week of touring. In spite of this, Patti wishes to thank the band with steaks she claims to have been saving up for, but which Joe saw her shoplifting earlier. Joe confronts her about the theft, and Patti storms off to get ready for a show.
While she's gone, Joe returns to their parents' home with Benji. Patti arrives and is heavily criticized by Jeanette for neglecting her son while on tour and pointing out her many failures. Joe intervenes, taking Patti to the basement to cool down. With a sense of desperation, she details her desire to tighten up the band and take it to a new level, which he is skeptical can happen.
Returning from a Fabulous Thunderbirds concert, Joe finds Patti excited to audition for The Hunzz, a local metal band. He has no interest in joining The Hunzz, and she sees Joe's concern for the stability of their family as opposition to Patti's life. A brief fight ensues, but Benji appears, crying. Joe takes Benji to his room, and Patti leaves to audition for The Hunzz.
The Barbusters go their separate ways, with Joe returning to his manufacturing job and caring for Benji as a surrogate father. Issues with Jeanette's memory become apparent when she forgets that they own a functional dishwasher. Joe's father, Benjamin, confirms that her memory is fading, but he doesn't bring it up for fear of upsetting her.
While talking to Bu at work soon after, Joe gets a call that his mother is in the hospital. At the hospital, Jeanette has been undergoing tests and appears confused. The results of a biopsy are made known to Joe and his father, indicating that she suffers from ovarian cancer. Jeanette wonders where Patti is, and Joe believes he can find her.
Joe goes to a Hunzz show to find Patti and takes her home. After a night out at a bar, Patti, Joe, and the Barbusters reconcile. Later, at the hospital, Jeanette requests to speak with Patti alone, and they reconcile as she is on her deathbed. Patti confesses that Reverend Ansley is Benji's father. Jeanette expresses a wish for Benjamin to remarry, and for Patti to join her in Heaven, and Patti agrees to both.
Soon after, Jeanette passes away. At the viewing for her funeral, Patti is absent. Later that night, The Barbusters are expected to play a reunion show, but Bu suspects Patti will not make it to that, either. Joe finds her at an arcade, confronts her about her absences, and declares how much he used to look up to her.
Patti leaves the arcade to go to the funeral home and embraces her father. Meanwhile, The Barbusters are setting up, getting ready to start their set without Patti. Surprising everyone, she arrives in time for the first chorus of "Light of Day," and the band is