Like Water for Chocolate (Spanish: Como agua para chocolate) is a 1992 Mexican romantic drama film in the style of magical realism based on the debut novel of the same name published in 1989 by Mexican novelist Laura Esquivel. It earned ten Ariel Awards including the Best Picture and was nominated for a Golden Globe Award for Best Foreign Language Film. The film became the highest-grossing foreign-language film ever released in the United States at the time. The film was selected as the Mexican entry for the Best Foreign Language Film at the 65th Academy Awards, but was not accepted as a nominee.


== Plot ==
A woman named Tita living in the early 1900s experiences the struggles of love, family dynamics and family tradition.
A young lady is cutting onions, expressing the influences of emotions and cooking. She begins a story with the birth of a girl named Tita. Tita's mother, Elena, gives birth on the kitchen table, assisted by the cook, Nacha. Shortly afterwards Elena's husband dies of a heart attack when a stranger viciously tells him that his wife had an affair and the second daughter isn't his. During the funeral Elena explains to Nacha that she can no longer have children and the family tradition dictates that Tita, being the youngest child, cannot marry but must take care of her mother until her death. Tita's sisters, Rosaura and Gertrudis, will be allowed to marry. Nacha takes charge of teaching Tita how to cook food in flavorful ways. Tita learns to infuse her emotions into food.
Years later a young man named Pedro Muzquiz professes his love and desire to marry Tita, who feels the same way about Pedro. On Tita's birthday, Pedro arrives with his father, Don Pascual Muzquiz, to ask for her hand. Elena explains why Tita is not allowed to marry and offers Rosaura instead. Rosaura is delighted, Tita is devastated and Gertrudis and Chencha (a maid) are disappointed. Nacha overhears Pedro tell his father that he is marrying Rosaura only in order to stay close to Tita. Nacha tells Tita but she is too upset to believe it. While baking the wedding cake Tita cries into the batter. During the wedding reception Pedro tells Tita of his true feelings. Suspicious that Tita and Pedro are having an affair, Elena says Tita must stay away from Pedro. As the guests eat the wedding cake, everyone is overcome with great sadness for lost lovers and begins to cry, followed by vomiting. Overcome with this sadness Elena rushes to her bedroom and tearfully looks at the photo of a well-dressed mulatto man. It is implied that the rumours about Elena's affair are true. Tita finds Nacha dead on the floor holding a picture of her husband.
Some time later Rosaura becomes pregnant. One day Pedro brings Tita a bouquet of roses to celebrate Tita being the head cook. Elena commands Tita to throw them away but Tita uses the petals to create a rose sauce for a quail dish. While eating the meal everyone except Rosaura becomes filled with sensual gratification. Rosaura is sick instead and leaves the table. Gertrudis becomes hot and so overheated that the shower house catches fire. She runs away naked, encountering the soldier Juan Alejandrez, who is fighting in the Mexican Revolution. Filled with a strong attraction to Juan, Gertrudis immediately jumps onto his horse and leaves with him. Tita sees this but tells Elena that Gertrudis was kidnapped and the soldiers set the shower house on fire. Elena is informed by a family priest that Gertrudis was forced into prostitution. Tita secretly sends Gertrudis her things.
Rosaura gives birth to a sickly son, Roberto. Too ill to nurse Roberto, she must let Tita nurse him with Pedro monitoring. Still suspicious that Tita and Pedro are having an affair, Elena sends Rosaura, Pedro and Roberto to live in Texas. Months later Chencha informs Elena and Tita that Roberto, unwilling to eat, has died. Tita is greatly saddened, but Elena tells her to show no emotion and to continue with the kitchen chores. This brings Tita to an 