Little Men, or Life at Plumfield with Jo's Boys, is a children's novel by American author Louisa May Alcott (1832–1888), which was first published in 1871 by Roberts Brothers. The book reprises characters from her 1868–69 two-volume novel Little Women, and acts as a sequel, or as the second book in an unofficial Little Women trilogy. The trilogy ends with Alcott's 1886 novel Jo's Boys, and How They Turned Out: A Sequel to "Little Men". Alcott's story recounts the life of Jo Bhaer, her husband, and the various children at Plumfield Estate School. Alcott's classic novel has been adapted to a 1934 film, a 1940 film, a 1998 film, a television series, and a Japanese animated television series.


== Plot ==
The story begins with the arrival of Nat Blake, a shy young orphan, at Plumfield, the school run by Professor Bhaer and Mrs. Josephine Bhaer (née March). Nat charms the ten other boys attending the school, as well as Mr. and Mrs. Bhaer, with fiddle skills learned from his father. Mrs. Bhaer shares with him that every Sunday, she reviews each student's behavior and whether they were good or they disappointed her that week. Nat resolves to make her proud.
He quickly realizes Plumfield is not run by conventional means. Fifteen-minute pillow fights are permitted on Saturdays to keep mischief during the week to a minimum. Children are treated as individuals, with a strong emphasis on gently molding their characters. All the children have their own gardens and their own pets and are encouraged to experiment with independence. Nat soon forms a friendship with Tommy Bangs, the troublemaker of the school, who keeps chickens and allows Nat to keep one egg from every dozen found. Nat dreams of buying his own violin with his profits. Demi and Daisy, Meg's twin children, also live at Plumfield and Nat becomes close friends with them. 
Mr. Bhaer cures Nat of his fibbing habit by making him strike Mr. Bhaer's hand with a ruler when he is caught lying. Nat is only consoled by playing his violin and walking with Daisy, who is normally excluded from playing with the boys. Mrs. Bhaer and Laurie surprise her with a tiny, functional kitchen which the boys are not allowed to play with. She puts on little parties for the boys with her meager cooking skills.
Nat's wild friend Dan comes to live at Plumfield. Dan originally decides the other boys are "molly-coddles" and leads them in experiments with boxing, drinking, smoking, profanity, and card games. When one of his games starts the house on fire, Dan, along with Mr. Bhaer's nephews Franz and Emil, put out the fire, and he is sent away. 
Nan arrives at Plumfield as a companion for Daisy. Mrs. Bhaer hopes she will also be a civilizing influence on the male residents, but Nan is even more of a tomboy than Jo was as a teenager and gets into all sorts of trouble. Dan shows back up at Plumfield with a broken foot and is nursed back to health by Mrs. Bhaer. When Laurie sponsors a new natural history museum for the school, Dan becomes curator because of his interest in the outdoors.
One day, everyone goes to pick berries and Nan promises to take care of little Rob, but they end up playing in a cave and miss the wagon back home. After a joyful reunion, the next day Mrs. Bhaer teaches them a lesson by tying Nan up to a string in one room for the day. Bess, Laurie and Amy's daughter, comes for a visit and all the boys respect her so greatly that their behavior improves from her presence. When Nat is falsely accused of theft by the other boys, Dan takes the fall so Nat is no longer shunned. When Dan saves another student named Jack from a fall, Jack admits to Mr. Bhaer he stole the money and leaves the school. The boys plan to buy Dan a microscope for his kindness. Although Dan cares more for the Bhaers than before, he begins to long for freedom again and Mrs. Bhaer attempts to keep him home with various tasks. He promises he will give notice before leaving again.
Near the end of the novel, Demi and Daisy's fathe