Little City is a 1997 romantic comedy film written and directed by Roberto Benabib. The film stars Jon Bon Jovi, Josh Charles, Joanna Going, Penelope Ann Miller, Annabella Sciorra, and JoBeth Williams. The film follows the intersecting love lives of a group of single twentysomethings in San Francisco.
Little City premiered at the 1997 LA Film Festival and was given a limited release on February 20, 1998. In the UK, the film was released straight-to-video.


== Plot ==
In an AA support group, womanizing bartender Kevin is talking about how he thought his relationships with women would change after he stopped drinking. Kevin sees a woman he wants, but loses interest in her after he gets her. He realizes this is not a healthy relationship pattern but doesn't know how to change it.
Rebecca, a single woman new to the "small town" of San Francisco, applies for a bartender job at the same bar Kevin works at. Although Kevin comes onto Rebecca immediately, she recognizes Kevin's playboy ways and rebuffs him; however, the two become good friends. Adam, Kevin's friend who drives a cab to support himself while he pursues his passion for painting, confides in Kevin about his girlfriend Nina and his suspicions she is having an affair. When Adam tries to initiate sex with Nina later at home, she tells him she is tired. Quickly realizing he may become suspicious, Nina changes her mind and decides to sleep with him; although, unbeknownst to Adam, she has just come back from sleeping with her lover.
Kevin and Nina meet in a Catholic church where he tells her that Adam suspects she is cheating on him. Nina is alarmed and asks Kevin if Adam knows who her lover is. It is revealed Kevin is the man with whom she is cheating on Adam with, stemming form her feelings of being neglected by Adam. The two express guilt over deceiving Adam, but they also acknowledge they can't stay away from each other. Nina also feels that Adam is not over his ex-girlfriend, Kate, who left him for another woman, Anne, after coming out as a lesbian.
Adam, figuring out Kevin is the man sleeping with Nina, confronts him at the bar where Kevin and Rebecca work. Kevin argues Adam was not treating Nina right and claims Adam is not truly in love with her because he has not gotten over his ex. Adam recognizes some truth in what Kevin says, but he still angrily smashes a shot glass against the bar wall before storming out.
Rebecca, being new in town and unlucky in love, meets Anne at a coffee shop. Even though she does not have a serious interest in being a lesbian, she decides to sleep with Anne to see if it excites her more than sleeping with men, which has so far been underwhelming for her. Her first lesbian experience with Anne is interrupted by Kate who returns home early after finally coming out of the closet to her parents. Catching Anne and Rebecca in bed together, Kate walks out. Rebecca, realizing she is not really a lesbian, does not see Anne again out of embarrassment.
Kate is left heartbroken by Anne's transgression. Anne, on the other hand, has been looking for a reason to break it off with Kate, who is the younger of the two and more serious about the relationship. Anne does not like the domestic routine the two have settled into and tells Kate that she has never been very good at monogamy.
After confronting Nina about her affair with Kevin, Adam and Nina break up. Learning Kate is no longer with Anne, Adam sees it as an opportunity to get back together with her, although she tells him it's not possible. Adam meets Rebecca when he picks her up in his cab on her way to a blind date. They recognize each other from his blow-up in the bar and are instantly attracted to each other. Although Rebecca warns Adam that she is not very comfortable with her own body and doesn't feel terribly connected to it in bed, Rebecca discovers sex with Adam is better than any experience she has had before.
With Nina and Adam's relationship over, Kevin tells Nina that their relationship wa