The Locust was an American hardcore punk band from San Diego, California, known for their mix of grindcore aggression and new wave experimentation.
The band has been noted for their use of insect costumes when performing live.


== History ==
Prior to The Locust founding members Justin Pearson and Dylan Scharf were in the hardcore punk band Struggle together, formed in late 1990. The band only lasted three years. Despite this they had opportunities to share musical space with other significant bands with similar ideological perspectives such as Born Against, Downcast, Bikini Kill, and Econochrist. The band disbanded in 1994.
The Locust was formed in 1994 by Bobby Bray, Justin Pearson, Dylan Scharf, Dave Warshaw, and Dave Astor. After a number of personnel changes, they arrived at their ultimate four-piece lineup in 2001, consisting of Bray, Pearson, Joey Karam and Gabe Serbian. The Locust was initially a powerviolence project whose first release was a split with genre pioneers Man Is the Bastard. Later releases incorporated synthesizers and became increasingly theatrical. The band regularly played shows in all-ages punk clubs in Los Angeles and San Diego, usually donning insect costumes.
In September 1998, The Locust released their first full-length album, The Locust, through Gold Standard Laboratories.
On June 24, 2003, The Locust released their second full-length album, Plague Soundscapes, through ANTI-.
On March 20, 2007, The Locust released their third and ultimately final full-length album, New Erections, through ANTI-. After lengthy touring following the release of New Erections, The Locust went on hiatus.
On May 18, 2010, The Locust released an archive recording of their Peel Session recorded 9 years prior in 2001, simply named The Peel Sessions, released through Radio Surgery. This 16-track recording was the first time Gabe Serbian had started playing drums for The Locust, finalizing the lineup of Bobby Bray, Joey Karam, Justin Pearson and Gabe Serbian that has remained ever since.
On July 31, 2012, The Locust released a compilation album, The Gold Standard Labs, through ANTI-. The album contains all the band's material released on the Gold Standard Laboratories label which is all their material from 1997 to 2002.
In 2013, The Locust returned from hiatus and in 2019 they were added to the Desert Daze 2019 festival line up. Bassist Justin Pearson confirmed that the band would add more shows after this, with new material and new costumes.
On May 1, 2022, the band announced the death of drummer Gabe Serbian that had occurred the day before. The band have since announced on their Instagram account that they can no longer be active in the wake of Serbian's death, and that no further albums or live performances will occur under the Locust name. The final piece recorded by the group is a remix of the Danny Elfman solo track "Cruel Compensation" which appears on the remix album Bigger. Messier.


== Style and influences ==
The Locust were known for their unique mix of grindcore speed and aggression, complexity, and new wave weirdness. The band's musical genre is typically described as grindcore, hardcore punk, powerviolence, mathcore and noise rock.
About the band's aesthetic, vocalist/bassist Justin Pearson has said, "I wanted to change the way people perceive music, or maybe just destroy it in general." The Locust's music is complex, dynamic and fast-paced, often featuring abrupt and inconsistent time-signature changes. These erratic elements are, according to vocalist/guitarist Bobby Bray, "a reflection of perhaps how our brains have to function in order to be able to do anything in the Western societies we live in." Stylus described the band's sound as "Relentless blitzkriegs of high velocity noise, skinny tie keyboards and bloody screaming that often last less than a minute, Locust songs are tightly-wound, dynamic and bizarre expressions of frustration and hatred whose intensity and creativity are currently unparalleled i