The Long Good-bye is a novel by Raymond Chandler, published in 1953, his sixth novel featuring the private investigator Philip Marlowe. Some critics consider it inferior to The Big Sleep or Farewell, My Lovely, but others rank it as the best of his work. Chandler, in a letter to a friend, called the novel "my best book".
The novel is notable for using hard-boiled detective fiction as a vehicle for social criticism and for including autobiographical elements from Chandler's life. In 1955, the novel received the Edgar Award for Best Novel. It was later adapted as a 1973 film of the same name, updated to 1970s Los Angeles and starring Elliott Gould.


== Plot summary ==
Outside of "the Dancers," a club in Los Angeles, Philip Marlowe meets Terry Lennox, a drunk with scars on one side of his face. They forge an uneasy friendship over the next few months, having drinks, especially gimlets, together at bars. In June, Lennox shows up late one night at Marlowe's home in "a great deal of trouble" and needing a ride to the airport across the border in Tijuana, Mexico. Marlowe agrees as long as Lennox does not tell him any details of why he is running. He later finds $500 left to him by Terry.
On his return to Los Angeles, Marlowe learns that Lennox's wife Sylvia was found dead; she had died before Lennox fled. Marlowe is arrested for aiding a suspected murderer after refusing to cooperate with investigators, who want him to confess he helped Lennox flee. After three days of antagonizing his interrogators, Marlowe is released, the police explaining that Lennox has been reported to have committed suicide in a small Mexican town with a written confession by his side. Marlowe gets home to find a cryptic letter from Lennox containing a "portrait of Madison" (a $5,000 bill).

Marlowe gets a call from New York publisher Howard Spencer, who asks him to investigate a case. One of Spencer's best writers, Roger Wade, has a drinking problem and has been missing for three days. Initially Marlowe refuses but after Wade's wife, Eileen, also asks for Marlowe's help, he consents. Marlowe finds Wade in a makeshift detox facility in an isolated and soon-to-be-abandoned ranch. He takes his fee, but the Wades' stories do not match.
The Wades each try to persuade Marlowe to stay at their house to keep Roger writing instead of drinking. Despite refusing, he makes further trips to the house at their behest. He is invited to an awkward cocktail party, where Dr. Edward Loring threatens Wade to leave his wife Linda alone. Marlowe accidentally met Mrs. Loring previously at a bar, where they were drinking gimlets together in memory of Terry Lennox. Linda Loring is actually Sylvia Lennox's sister and knew Terry well.
After being called by a drunk and disoriented Roger, Marlowe arrives to find Wade passed out in the grass with a cut on his head and Mrs. Wade oddly uninterested in her husband's welfare. He is put to bed with a head wound from a likely fall. Dr. Loring is called and examines Wade, not hiding his contempt. Wade wakes up and begs Marlowe to remove and destroy typewritten pages in his study he wrote while drunk, not wanting his wife to read them. 
Marlowe reads the pages, finding a cryptic self-analysis by Wade which hints at repressed trauma he does not quite understand alongside a clear statement that “once a good man died" for him. Marlowe keeps this evidence. Hearing a shot, he rushes to find the couple struggling over a gun in Roger's bedroom. Marlowe sits with Roger until the latter has taken sleeping pills. As he is leaving, a distraught half-naked Eileen enters a sort of trance and attempts to seduce Marlowe, thinking him to be a former lover of hers who died in the Second World War. Marlowe refuses and crashes on their couch, getting drunk and passing out to not be tempted by Eileen's offer. The Wades' houseboy Candy makes threats against Marlowe. The next morning, Eileen behaves normally and Marlowe leaves.
Marlowe is repeatedly threatened to cea