The Underachievers are an American hip hop duo from Flatbush, Brooklyn, New York. Formed in 2011, the duo is composed of rappers AK the Savior and Issa Gold. American record producer Flying Lotus signed the duo to his Brainfeeder record label in 2012. Following that signing they independently released two mixtapes, Indigoism and Lords of Flatbush in 2013. Their debut studio album Cellar Door: Terminus Ut Exordium was released on August 12, 2014. The Underachievers released their second official album Evermore: The Art of Duality on September 25, 2015. Their third album, Renaissance was released on May 19, 2017. They released After the Rain on November 9, 2018, and Lords Of Flatbush 3 on June 21, 2019.


== History ==


=== 2007–2010: Early beginnings ===
Marlon Fung (Issa Gold) and Akeem Joseph (AK) grew up just a few blocks from each other in Flatbush, Brooklyn. The duo first met in 2007, after AK's friend brought Issa to his house one day to smoke marijuana, where they clicked instantly and discussed psychedelic drugs, which they would later do together along with fellow Brooklyn rappers Meechy Darko and Zombie Juice, two of the Flatbush Zombies.


=== 2011–2012: Career beginnings, signing to Brainfeeder ===
AK began rapping at the age of eleven, later on in high school he would work under the stage name The Underachiever. Issa Gold started rapping much later, not taking it seriously until around late 2011. The duo then began making music together under the name "The Underachievers" after a producer pushed them to work together, which resulted in them forming the group. Issa explained the name saying, "I feel like the things that we do could be considered underachieving, like we smoke pot. People would probably meet us at first and be like, They're probably just potheads. And then they'll talk to me, or talk to AK, and be like, 'alright, they're intelligent.' So it's just a flip on that. Like, The Underachievers, even though technically we're doing underachiever things, we're bringing positive energy."
In May 2012, they released their first music video for the song "So Devilish". Following the videos release they began gaining attention quickly, with their second officially released song "Gold Soul Theory" getting played on BBC Radio in August 2012, even though they had yet to sign a recording contract. Their music was also passed on to record producer Flying Lotus, who the following day flew them out to Los Angeles to meet them the day after they talked for the first time. After they met a few times and performed a few shows for him, he signed them to his Brainfeeder record label. Flying Lotus said he already wanted to sign the duo after listening to one song for only 20 seconds. Around the same time they signed they released their third music video for "Herb Shuttles", which has gotten over seventeen million views on YouTube. Around mid-2012, The Underachievers, Pro Era and Flatbush Zombies formed the New York hip hop supergroup Beast Coast.


=== 2013: Indigoism and Lords of Flatbush ===

The duo released their first official mixtape Indigoism on February 1, 2013, via Flying Lotus' Brainfeeder record label. Indigoism featured psychedelic lyrics, allusions to the third eye and spirituality. The mixtape was met with very positive reviews from music critics upon its release, including by BBC. On March 13, 2013, The Underachievers released "No Religion", their first collaboration with Flatbush Zombies. Following the release of Indigoism they toured North America and Australia with Joey Badass, Pro Era and Flatbush Zombies from March 21 until April 20, 2013. On July 19, 2013, Indigoism was released to iTunes for retail sale.
On August 20, 2013, they released the first song from their second mixtape Lords of Flatbush, "Leaving Scraps". The following day they released their first retail single "The Proclamation" to iTunes. On August 29, 2013, The Underachievers released Lords of Flatbush, a nine track mixtape featuring productio