The fifth season of the Australian version of the original NBC American reality television series The Biggest Loser, known as The Biggest Loser Australia: Couples 2, premiered on 31 January 2010 on Network Ten. This season saw Australia's first female Biggest Loser. 41-year-old education assistant Lisa was the winner, dropping 56.2 kg from her 121.9 kg starting weight - or 46.10% - to become the first woman to win the competition. Also, she is the first contestant to double her prize money since she was crowned The Biggest Loser with the Double bracelet on her wrist.


== Host and personalities ==
Host: Hayley Lewis (new host)
Trainers: Shannan Ponton, Michelle Bridges, Steve Willis ("The Commando")
Masterclass: Dr Norman Swan (Doctor and Medical Journalist), Janella Purcell (Masterclass Chef)
Nutrition Consultant. Professor Clare Collins PhD FDAA


== Game variations ==
Couples: Season Five began with contestants split into 9 teams of two, each with a pre-existing relationship. These couples were divided into two groups for training purposes only - the contestants undergo challenges, Temptations and eliminations in their pairs. Like the previous season, this season was set to have 10 teams, but due to the arrest of one contestant before broadcast (see Production and release), all references to the 10th team (light blue) were removed in the broadcast episodes they originally appeared in.
Double or Nothing bracelets: This feature was first introduced in the last season and is featured again. During the season, one contestant is given a gold bracelet (the "Double" bracelet shown with two-dollar signs) and another contestant is given a silver bracelet (the "Nothing" bracelet written with the word "Nothing"). Should the holder of the Double bracelet become this season's winner, he or she will win double the normal prize money (normal prize money is $200,000, so double this is $400,000; however, the normal prize amount is reduced if a contestant accepts cash to leave the competition early, and the double prize money is calculated from the reduced normal amount). Should the holder of the Nothing bracelet become this season's winner, he or she will win $0. No contestant can hold both bracelets at the same time, but they can hold one at one time and hold the other at a later time.
Marathon: In week 1, the contestants were informed that towards the end of the series the eliminated contestants would participate in a full 42 km marathon. This would be the only opportunity presented for the eliminated contestants to return to the game. To train for this event, the contestants participated in several long-distance races over the weeks leading up to the marathon: a 4 km run in week 1, a 10 km run in week 3, and a 21 km half-marathon in week 8. The full marathon was run in week 12.
No red and blue teams: For the first time this series, there was no red and blue teams.


=== Teams ===


=== Bracelets ===
The two bracelets were introduced in week 1, and have moved around over the course of the series due to Eliminations, non-elimination penalties, biggest loser rewards and challenges. The Double bracelet has the power to double the prize money (to a maximum of $400,000) if worn by the winner of the overall competition, while the Nothing bracelet has the power to deny the prize money (so they win no prize money) if worn by the overall winner. If the wearer of a bracelet is eliminated, that person must choose onto which of the remaining contestants to pass their bracelet. Lisa won TBLC 2010, and was wearing the Double bracelet, but by the finale the prize money had been reduced to $185,000, so she won double that amount ($370,000).


=== Weigh-Ins ===
Weigh-ins occur every week. They show the contestant's weight, previous weight and difference. Every week contestants are weighed in. While the contestants are in "couples", the two couples with the lowest weight loss percentages are eligible for elimination. When the game shifts to "singles", the 