The Parable of the Prodigal Son (also known as the parable of the Two Brothers, Lost Son, Loving Father, or of the Forgiving Father) is one of the parables of Jesus in the Bible, appearing in Luke 15:11–32. In Luke 15, Jesus is said to tell this story, along with those of a man with 100 sheep and a woman with ten coins, to a group of Pharisees and religious leaders who kept on criticizing him for welcoming and eating with marginalized Jews including tax collectors and other sinners.
The Prodigal Son is the third and final parable of a cycle on redemption, following the parables of the Lost Sheep and the Lost Coin. In Revised Common Lectionary and Roman Rite Catholic Lectionary, this parable is read on the fourth Sunday of Lent (in Year C); in the latter it is also included in the long form of the Gospel on the 24th Sunday of Ordinary Time in Year C, along with the preceding two parables of the cycle. In the Eastern Orthodox Church it is read on the Sunday of the Prodigal Son.


== Narrative ==

The parable begins with a man who had two sons, and the younger of them asks his father to give him his share of the estate. The implication is the son did not want to wait for his father's death for his inheritance, and instead wanted it immediately. The father agrees and divides his estate between the two sons.
Upon receiving his portion of the inheritance, the younger son travels to a distant country, where he squanders his wealth through reckless living. However, it is not long before he exhausted all his money. Soon thereafter, a severe famine strikes the land, leaving him desperately poor and forcing him to take work as a swineherd. He reaches the point of envying the food of the pigs he is feeding. At this time, he finally comes to his senses:

And when he came to himself, he said, How many hired servants of my father's have bread enough and to spare, and I perish with hunger! I will arise and go to my father, and will say unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and before thee, and am no more worthy to be called thy son: make me as one of thy hired servants.
And he arose, and came to his father. But when he was yet a great way off, his father saw him, and had compassion, and ran, and fell on his neck, and kissed him.
This implies that the father was watching hopefully for the son's return. The son starts his rehearsed speech, admitting his sins, and declaring himself unworthy of being his father's son but does not even finish before his father accepts him back without hesitation. The father calls for his servants to dress the son in the finest robe and put a ring on his finger and sandals on his feet and to slaughter the "fatted calf" for a celebratory meal.
The older son, who was at work in the fields, hears the sound of celebration and is told by a slave about the return of his younger brother. He is not impressed and becomes angry. He also has a speech for his father:

And he answering said to his father, Lo, these many years do I serve thee, neither transgressed I at any time thy commandment: and yet thou never gavest me a kid, that I might make merry with my friends: but as soon as this thy son was come, which hath devoured thy living with harlots, thou hast killed for him the fatted calf.
The parable stops with the father explaining that while the older son has always been present and that everything the father owns also belongs to the older son. Because the younger son had returned, in a sense, from the dead, celebration was necessary:

It was meet that we should make merry, and be glad: for this thy brother was dead, and is alive again; and was lost, and is found.Although the story stops, it does not end. There is no conclusion like in the two preceding parables. Luke does not have Jesus tell the fate of the older brother. Does he accept his father's invitation to join the celebration or not?


== Interpretation ==

The opening, "A man had two sons" is a storyteller's trope and would immediately bring to mind Cai