The following is a list of fictional characters from Michael Crichton's 1990 novel Jurassic Park, its 1995 sequel The Lost World, and their film adaptations, Jurassic Park (1993) and The Lost World: Jurassic Park (1997). Also included are characters from the sequel films Jurassic Park III, Jurassic World, Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom, Jurassic World Dominion, and the short film Battle at Big Rock. These films are not adaptations and have no original source novels but contain some characters and events based on the fictional universe of Crichton's novels. Some cast members from the films have also reprised their roles in certain video games.
The original novel introduces several characters who would appear throughout the film series, including Dr. Alan Grant, Dr. Ellie Sattler, Dr. Ian Malcolm, John Hammond, and Dr. Henry Wu. Jurassic World introduces Owen Grady and Claire Dearing, while Fallen Kingdom introduces Maisie Lockwood, who are the lead characters of the Jurassic World trilogy.


== Cast table ==

This table shows the characters and the actors who have portrayed them throughout the franchise.
A dark grey cell indicates the character was not in the film.
A V indicates a voice-only role.
A C indicates a cameo appearance.


== Appearing in Jurassic Park ==

Jurassic Park began as a science fiction novel, written by Michael Crichton and published in 1990. Steven Spielberg directed a film adaptation released in 1993. In both versions, John Hammond and his company InGen are building Jurassic Park, a theme park of genetically engineered dinosaurs. It is located on the fictional island of Isla Nublar, near Costa Rica. When a worker is killed in a dinosaur attack, the park's investors demand that Hammond bring experts to the island to certify its safety. Hammond invites paleontologist Alan Grant and paleobotanist Ellie Sattler, and also brings along his own grandchildren, Lex and Tim Murphy. Lawyer Donald Gennaro, representing Hammond's investors, invites mathematician Ian Malcolm. Using chaos theory, Malcolm strongly believes that the park is destined to fail, an idea with which Hammond disagrees. Meanwhile, the park's disgruntled computer programmer, Dennis Nedry, is bribed by a rival corporation to steal dinosaur embryos from Jurassic Park. To do so, he temporarily shuts down certain security features, which leads to a series of incidents proving Malcolm right. The group then work together to restore order and get off the island. The film adaptation omits certain characters, such as park publicist Ed Regis, and condenses the roles of others such as geneticist Henry Wu and veterinarian Dr. Harding.


=== Dr. Alan Grant ===

Appears in: Jurassic Park (novel and film), Jurassic Park III, and Jurassic World Dominion
Portrayed by: Sam Neill
Dr. Alan Grant is a paleontologist and the main protagonist in the first novel, as well as the first and third films. Crichton based Grant on paleontologist Jack Horner. Grant's research is partly focused on velociraptors. When the dinosaurs on Isla Nublar escape their enclosures, Grant becomes stranded in the park with Hammond's two grandchildren. Throughout a large portion of the book, Grant and the children explore the park trying to find their way back to the rest of the group. In the film adaptation, much of this period is omitted.
For the film, several actors were considered for the part before it went to Neill, becoming one of his most popular roles. The film portrays Grant differently than the novel, giving him an introverted personality and a dislike of children. However, over the course of the first film, he warms to Hammond's grandchildren. The film also depicts him in a relationship with Dr. Ellie Sattler, who is a student of his in the novel. They have broken up by the time that Jurassic Park III takes place. In the third film, Grant has continued his fossil research and reluctantly agrees to give an aerial tour of the dinosaurs on Isla Sorna, in exchange for dig-site financing