"Love Is a Many-Splendored Thing" is a popular song with music by Sammy Fain and lyrics by Paul Francis Webster. 
The song appeared first in the movie Love Is a Many-Splendored Thing (1955), and it won the Academy Award for Best Original Song in 1956. From 1967 to 1973, it was also used as the theme song to Love is a Many Splendored Thing, the soap opera based on the movie.
Many versions of the song have been released. The best-selling version was recorded by The Four Aces, whose recording reached number two in the UK Singles Chart, and number one on both the Billboard and Cash Box charts in 1955.


== Background ==
The music was commissioned by 20th Century Fox for the movie Love Is a Many-Splendored Thing, and it was included in the film's score that was composed and conducted by Alfred Newman.  The producer Buddy Adler asked composer Sammy Fain and lyricist Paul Francis Webster to write a title song for the film.  The film was based on the book A Many-Splendoured Thing, and the writers wrote the song based on that title, but it was then decided that the title of the film would be better if preceded by "Love Is", and Fain and Webster wrote a second song. This second song with a new set of lyrics then became the title song, while the first song was discarded.
The song has been noted for its similarity to the aria "Un bel dì vedremo" from Giacomo Puccini’s opera, Madama Butterfly in its downward moving thirds.
The song was initially only used as background music in the film, later the words were subsequently sung to make it eligible for the Best Original Song category of the Academy Awards. An orchestral version of "Love Is a Many-Splendored Thing" is played at the title sequence of the film, with a vocal version performed by a chorus at the end.  Don Cornell and The Four Aces quickly recorded the song before the film was released. Before the Four Aces had a hit with their version, many major artists, including Nat King Cole, Eddie Fisher and Doris Day, contacted to record the song disliked it and refused to record it, although they recorded the song after it became a hit.
Sammy Fain and Paul Francis Webster won an Oscar for Best Original Song at the 28th Academy Awards, their second Oscar after winning the award for "Secret Love" in 1953. The background score for the film that was built in parts around the melody of the song also won an Oscar for Best Original Score for Alfred Newman.
This song is noted for its memorable lines: "In the morning mist, two lovers kissed, and the world stood still".


== Four Aces version ==

The song was covered by The Four Aces featuring Al Roberts backed by the Jack Pleis Orchestra and issued by Decca Records as catalog number 29625.  The film studio 20th Century Fox was said to have subsidized an album of The Four Aces so that they may release it as a single to help promote the film. The song was released backed with "Shine On, Harvest Moon" in July 1955, and first reached No. 1 on the Best Sellers chart in October 1955. It also became the first number one on Billboard's first ever Top 100 chart released in November 1955. It was ranked No. 8 on Billboard's 1955's Top Tune.
The recording by The Four Aces is featured in the film Cookie (1989). It became a gold record. 


=== Charts ===


== Other versions ==
Don Cornell recorded a version around at the same time as the Four Aces. It was issued by Coral Records (catalog number 61467) backed with "The Bible Tells Me So". The song reached No. 26 on Billboard' Top 100 chart. A number of orchestral versions were also released in the same year and reached the Top 100 chart; David Rose and His Orchestra reached No 54, while Woody Herman and His Orchestra reached No. 79.
Bing Crosby recorded the song in 1955 for use on his radio show and it was subsequently included in the box set The Bing Crosby CBS Radio Recordings (1954–56) issued by Mosaic Records (catalog MD7-245) in 2009.  The song has also been recorded by Ringo Starr (on his album Sentimental J