Love Is a Many-Splendored Thing is a 1955 Deluxe color American drama-romance film in CinemaScope. Set in 1949–50 in Hong Kong, it tells the story of a married, but separated, American reporter Mark Elliot (played by William Holden), who falls in love with a Eurasian doctor originally from China, Han Suyin (played by Jennifer Jones), only to encounter prejudice from her family and from Hong Kong society.
The film was adapted by John Patrick from the 1952 autobiographical novel A Many-Splendoured Thing by Han Suyin. The film was directed by Henry King.
The film later inspired a television soap opera in 1967, though without the hyphen in the show's title.


== Plot ==
A widowed Eurasian doctor Han Suyin (Jones) falls in love with a married-but-separated American correspondent Mark Elliott (Holden) in Hong Kong, during the period of China's Civil War in the late 1940s. Although they find brief happiness together, she is ostracized by the greater Chinese community. After losing her position at the hospital, Suyin and her adopted daughter go to live with a friend while Mark is on an assignment during the Korean War. They write to each other constantly. She receives word that Mark was killed and she goes to visit their favorite hilltop meeting place. In his last letter, which she receives that same day, he reminds her to be grateful, no matter what happens to him, because they got to experience “that many-splendored thing” which many people never do.


== Cast ==

William Holden as Mark Elliott
Jennifer Jones as Dr. Han Suyin
Torin Thatcher as Humphrey Palmer-Jones
Isobel Elsom as Adeline Palmer-Jones
Murray Matheson as Dr. John Keith
Virginia Gregg as Anne Richards
Richard Loo as Robert Hung
Soo Yong as Nora Hung
Philip Ahn as Third Uncle
Jorja Curtright as Suzanne
Donna Martell as Suchen, Suyin's sister
James Hong (uncredited)
Keye Luke (uncredited)
J. Cabin Joe (uncredited)


== Production ==
The rights to the novel were bought by David Brown of 20th Century Fox for the producer Sol C. Siegel. However, when he left the company the project was given to Buddy Adler. The screenplay struggled to get Motion Picture Production Code approval because of its themes of adultery and miscegenation.
Parts of the film were shot on location in Hong Kong by second-unit director Otto Lang, which was unusual for its time. Two weeks of location filming in Hong Kong had been completed before the final screenplay had been finished by screenwriter John Patrick. He then had to adapt the screenplay to include as many of the shots as possible.
Despite the film's romantic subject and their chemistry on the screen, Holden and Jones could barely stand each other on set. Holden was turned off by Jones's obsessive involvement with her character and complaints about her makeup (which she said made her "look old"), about her costumes and about her dialogue. Soon, they were barely speaking to one another. According to Holden's biography, Jones was also generally rude and abrasive to everyone involved in the production.
Their relationship was also not helped by Jones's worries about Holden's reputation as a womanizer. Holden claimed that she chewed garlic before her love scenes, which she may have done to discourage him. Once, Holden tried to make peace, offering Jones a bouquet of white roses, which she tossed back in his face.
The film was completed on time, within the planned three-months schedule. Indonesian director, J. Cabin Joe, made an uncredited role in the film where he appeared along with Holden.


=== Locations ===

The former Mok residence located at 41A Conduit Road became the Foreign Correspondents' Club in 1951. In the film it is portrayed as a hospital. The building is now demolished and Realty Gardens apartment complex has occupied the site since 1970.
The former colonial-style Repulse Bay Hotel, demolished in 1982, and now the site of The Repulse Bay apartment building.
The Tai Pak Floating Restaurant, now part of the Jumbo Kingdom.
The famous 