Love Affair were a London-based pop and progressive rock group formed in 1966. The group had several UK Singles Chart top 10 hits, including the number one success, "Everlasting Love".


== History ==


=== 1960s ===
The band was formed in February 1966 as The Soul Survivors, with the original lineup of Steve Ellis (vocals), Ian Miller (guitar), Warwick Rose (bass), Morgan Fisher (keyboards), and Maurice Bacon (drums). In August 1966, Miller and Rose left and George Michael and Mick Jackson took their place. Also in August 1966, they signed to Decca Records, and the bands name was changed to Love Affair. Love Affair's first single, "She Smiled Sweetly", written by Mick Jagger and Keith Richards and released on Decca Records, flopped. George Michael left after "She Smiled Sweetly", in March 1967 and was replaced by Rex Brayley. Fisher's mother wanted him to continue his education, meaning he was forced to leave the band, and after being briefly replaced by Peter Bardens, was permanently replaced by Lynton Guest in September 1967 - "I joined the band when I was still at school, and then various people convinced me I ought to stay at school to finish my 'A' Levels. So I left them for about six months, during which time they had a number one hit. I had no plan to come back, but after they had a number one hit" (Morgan Fisher)
The band reached the top of the UK Singles Chart in January 1968 with their second single "Everlasting Love". By this time the group had relocated to CBS Records. The song was first recorded by Robert Knight, whose version had reached No. 13 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart in the autumn of 1967, and it was previously offered to Marmalade, who turned it down. On the B-side was a cover version of "Gone Are the Songs of Yesterday", which was written by Phillip Goodhand-Tait. After its success, Goodhand-Tait saw an opportunity and signed a contract with Love Affair's managers John Cokell and Sid Bacon, the latter was the father to Love Affair Maurice Bacon. Goodhand-Tait went on to write more songs for Love Affair.
Lead vocalist Steve Ellis had a similar vocal style to Steve Marriott of the Small Faces, and the production was similar to a Motown soul record. Controversy ensued when the group admitted they had not played on the record, but that all the work was done by session musicians, although such a practice had long since been common. Their first recording of the song, produced by Muff Winwood, had featured them playing all the instruments. But the record label rejected this version in favour of one produced by Mike Smith, recorded with a recording studio rhythm section, strings, brass, flutes and backing vocalists, arranged by Keith Mansfield – and Ellis as the only member of the group to be heard. The backing vocals were provided by four female singers who became well known in their own right: Kiki Dee, Madeline Bell, Lesley Duncan and Kay Garner (as one of the Ladybirds). The bass part was played by Russ Stableford and Clem Cattini played drums.
In late 1968, Fisher asked a friend of his to write a letter to Love Affair to give them an update on his personal life, writing that Morgan was out of school now. The band sent a letter back to Fisher, asking him if he wanted to rejoin the group again, as they weren't really getting along with Lynton Guest and were wanting him replaced. Morgan was in Love Affair again, and was so until 1971.
Four further top 20 hits followed, "Rainbow Valley", "A Day Without Love" (both 1968), "One Road" and "Bringing on Back the Good Times" (both 1969). At the end of that year, they released the album, The Everlasting Love Affair.
The group became frustrated at being treated like teen idols, unable to hear themselves on stage because of the constant screaming and at being pigeonholed as a "pop group". All the A-sides featured heavy orchestral and brass arrangements behind Ellis's vocals, with minimal participation from the others, although they wrote and played on the heavier B-si