The Batman Adventures: Mad Love is a one-shot comic book written by Paul Dini and Bruce Timm. It won the Eisner Award for Best Single Issue and the Harvey Award for Best Single Issue or Story in 1994. It was later adapted as an episode of the animated series The New Batman Adventures, and incorporated in the video games Batman: Arkham Asylum and Batman: Arkham Origins. In 2018, Titan Books released a novelization of Mad Love written by Dini and Pat Cadigan, which expanded upon the original comic book.


== Premise ==
Set in the continuity of Batman: The Animated Series, the comic presents an origin story of supervillain Joker's henchwoman Harley Quinn. It presents her past as a psychologist at Arkham Asylum who then falls in love with him. 


== Background ==
Paul Dini and Bruce Timm came up with Mad Love after DC invited them to create a special issue for the Batman: The Animated Series tie-in comics Batman Adventures, which they decided would be an origin story for the Joker's sidekick, Harley Quinn. Dini wanted to tell a story that would expand her role beyond a costumed henchperson, and thought that adding the idea of her being the Joker's former therapist would make her unusual affection for the Joker tragic. Dini and Timm thought of making Harley a former doctor at Arkham Asylum seduced by the Joker to become his loyal follower and being put "in the role of the long-suffering girlfriend", while taking inspiration from fans of criminals who write them letters stating that they understand and "see the good" in them.
Dini sees Mad Love as a cautionary tale about loving someone "recklessly, obsessively, and for too long", and described Harley's experiences as tragicomic and a reflection of the readers in a "funhouse mirror, distorted and all too willing to play the fool for someone we'd be much better off without."


== Themes ==
Mad Love explores domestic violence and codependency. Hilary Golstein of IGN noted that despite being over-the-top lunatics, Harley is still the "typical abused spouse", the Joker the "typical disassociated husband", stating that the comic "shows the cycle of domestic violence that dominates the lives of many women in America." Multiversity Comics' Matthew Garcia observed that Mad Love's depiction of domestic abuse through the villains produces a "new and somewhat more terrifying perspective", pointing out how "for all the horrific stuff in and out of canon Joker has ever done, nothing feels quite as despicable as his behavior toward Harley", possibly because of the contrast of "very common behavior" with Joker's over-the-top villainy. Garcia also noted that despite the gags, Timm and Dini do not downplay Joker's abusive treatment of Harley, and noticed that as the comic progressed, the Joker "becomes more and more menacing, cast in shadows and silhouettes, a constant presence over her." Mad Love showcases Harley's dependency on the Joker; on the ending in which she falls in love with him again despite the abuse, Dini stated, "Harley could swear off him and be very strong, but if there's even the hint that he wants her back or he’s reformed, she'll go back."


== Plot ==
Mad Love begins with Joker, accompanied by his new sidekick, Harley Quinn, and his scheme of killing Commissioner Gordon, which is foiled by Batman. The Joker retreats with Harley, while Batman returns to the Batcave. With his butler, Alfred Pennyworth, Batman discusses Harley's questionable past: while studying in Gotham State University with a gymnastics scholarship, Harley, formerly named Harleen Quinzel, aimed to get a degree in psychology by sleeping with her professors, and planned to become a pop psychologist writing self-help books.
Meanwhile, in his hideout, a frustrated Joker struggles to devise a plan, with Harley attempting to comfort him, which annoys the Joker, inciting him to try to kill her, and later, to kick her out. A bemoaning Harley reflects on her current status as a wanted criminal in love with a psychopath wh