Furiosa: A Mad Max Saga (or simply Furiosa) is a 2024 Australian post-apocalyptic action film directed and produced by George Miller, who wrote the screenplay with Nico Lathouris. It is the fifth installment in the Mad Max franchise, serving as a prequel and spin-off to Mad Max: Fury Road (2015), and focuses on the Fury Road character Imperator Furiosa. The film stars Anya Taylor-Joy and Alyla Browne as younger versions of Furiosa (originally portrayed by Charlize Theron), alongside Chris Hemsworth and Tom Burke.
Set 15 to 20 years before the events of Fury Road, in a desert wasteland where warlords fight over the last remaining sources of water, food, weapons, and gasoline, Furiosa traces the young title character's life from her kidnapping by the forces of warlord Dementus (Hemsworth) to her revenge on the warlord for the loss of her mother. For over a decade, she struggles to survive as a slave and, eventually, a trusted lieutenant of the Citadel's cult leader, Immortan Joe (Lachy Hulme), and his military commander Praetorian Jack (Burke).
Miller initially intended to shoot Furiosa back-to-back with Fury Road, but the former spent several years in development hell amidst salary disputes with Warner Bros. Pictures, Fury Road's distributor. Several crew members from Fury Road returned for Furiosa, including composer Tom Holkenborg, costume designer Jenny Beavan, editor Margaret Sixel (Miller's wife), and screenwriter Lathouris. Filming took place in Australia from June to October 2022.
Furiosa: A Mad Max Saga premiered at the 77th Cannes Film Festival on 15 May 2024. It was released in theatres in Australia by Warner Bros. on 23 May 2024, and in the United States the following day. The film received positive reviews from critics. Despite this, the film's $110 million box office draw in its first two weeks has been characterized as an underperformance compared to its $168 million budget. According to some reports, the New South Wales government covered as much as half the film's budget.


== Plot ==
Years after a global catastrophe, Australia is a radioactive wasteland and the Green Place of Many Mothers is one of the last remaining areas with fresh water and agriculture. Raiders discover the Green Place while two kids, Furiosa and Valkyrie, are picking peaches. Furiosa attempts to sabotage their motorbikes, but the raiders capture her as a prize for their leader, warlord Dementus of the Biker Horde. Furiosa's mother Mary pursues them to the Horde's camp, killing all but one raider. The last raider delivers Furiosa to Dementus, but Furiosa mortally wounds him before he can reveal the Green Place's location.
Mary sneaks into the camp and rescues Furiosa; the Horde gives chase. Mary stays back to buy Furiosa time to escape and gives her a peach pit to remember her by, but Furiosa returns to her mother anyway. Dementus forces Furiosa to watch her mother's crucifixion. Haunted by the death of his family, he adopts Furiosa as his daughter, hoping that she will lead him to the Green Place. Furiosa tattoos a star chart to the Green Place on her left arm to find her way home.
After receiving a tip from a stranded soldier, Dementus and the Biker Horde besiege the Citadel, another Wasteland settlement with fresh water and agriculture. They are repelled by the War Boys, the fanatical army of Citadel warlord Immortan Joe. Dementus changes course, using a Trojan Horse strategy to capture Gastown, an oil refinery that supplies the Citadel with gasoline. At peace negotiations, Joe agrees to recognize Dementus's authority over Gastown and increase its supplies of food and water in exchange for the Horde's physician and Furiosa.
At the Citadel, Immortan Joe imprisons Furiosa in the vault with his stable of "wives". After Joe's son Rictus shows an attraction to her, she devises a plan to escape. One night, Rictus breaks Furiosa out of the vault to make sexual advances toward her; using a wig made from her own hair, she slips from his grasp and 