"Madame Butterfly" is a short story by American lawyer and writer John Luther Long. It is based on the recollections of Long's sister, Jennie Correll, who had been to Japan with her husband, a Methodist missionary. It was first published in Century Magazine in 1898 and adapted for the stage in 1900. Giacomo Puccini based his 1904 opera Madama Butterfly on the play.


== Plot ==
US Navy Lieutenant Benjamin Franklin Pinkerton arrives in Nagasaki. He leases a house for 999 years and marries a 17-year old geisha, Cho-Cho-San. Pinkerton bans her family from visiting, and they disown her. Nevertheless, she feels she is "the mos' bes' happy female woman in
Japan—mebby in that whole worl'".
Pinkerton's duties take him away from Nagasaki, but he promises to return "when the robins nest again". Cho-Cho-San has faith that he will return and bears their baby. She names him Trouble.
A marriage broker harangues Cho-Cho-San to take a new husband. He warns that if Pinkerton does return it will probably only be to retrieve his child. He introduces her to a prince named Yamadori who tells Cho-Cho-San that Pinkerton never viewed their marriage as permanent. Yamadori offers to marry Cho-Cho-San and help her keep Trouble. 
Cho-Cho-San visits the American consul, Mr. Sharpless. As Sharpless learns the full scope of Pinkerton's actions, he grows ashamed and contemptuous of the officer. Sharpless encourages her to marry Yamadori.
Several weeks later, Pinkerton's ship arrives. Cho-Cho-San has been keeping a faithful watch for it and is overcome with emotion. Her maid Suzuki helps prepare the house with flowers and arrange Pinkerton's things the way he remembered them. Cho-Cho-San wears her finest kimono and hides behind a shoji to watch Pinkerton's arrival. She waits all night to no avail. 
A week later, a civilian ship arrives. Cho-Cho-San spies Pinkerton on deck with a blonde woman. She keeps another fruitless vigil waiting for her husband's homecoming. When Pinkerton's ship leaves the harbor, Cho-Cho-San returns to Sharpless' office. Desperate to avoid inflicting more pain, Sharpless lies to Cho-Cho-San. He tells her that Pinkerton was ordered to China and could not return to her. Sharpless offers her an envelope full of money.
The blonde woman from the steamship bursts into the office and identifies herself as Pinkerton's wife. She asks Sharpless to telegram Pinkerton to say that she had been to Cho-Cho-San's house but could not find her. She asks if she can bring Trouble with her when she joins Pinkerton the following week.
Cho-Cho-San rushes home. She bids farewell to Suzuki and Trouble and shuts herself in her room to commit suicide. She opens a wound in her throat and the blood drips down her chest. Suzuki silently enters the room with the baby and pinches him to make him cry. Cho-Cho-San lets the sword drop to the floor. As the baby crawls onto Cho-Cho-San's lap, Suzuki dresses her wound. When Mrs. Pinkerton returns to the house the following day it is empty.


== Historical basis ==
Long's sister Jennie Correll married a Methodist missionary and lived in Nagasaki. Through their correspondence, Long learned about the culture of Japan and various personalities that would become characters in his stories. Correll once told her brother about a "dear little teahouse girl" named "Cho-San" who was abandoned by the father of her child. He immediately turned it into a story and asked her input. 
Many people have tried to deduce the identities of the characters in Long's story. Pinkerton and his friend Sayre appear in both "Madame Butterfly" and Long's 1895 novel Miss Cherry-Blossom of Tokyo. Musicologist Arthur Groos believes he tracked down the real Sayre and a likely candidate for Pinkerton. Another author speculated that Thomas Blake Glover is the man who adopted Cho-Cho-San's son, but that evidence was dismissed as "flimsy".
Pierre Loti thinly disguised himself in his 1887 novel Madame Chrysanthème. Because so much of Loti's plot reappears in Lon