Madeline's Madeline is a 2018 American drama film written and directed by Josephine Decker. It stars Helena Howard in her first film role, alongside Molly Parker and Miranda July. The film follows a teenage actress who is encouraged by her theater director to blur the lines between the character she is playing and her actual identity. The film is known for its experimental visuals and the improvisational process Decker used to create the story, not unlike the characters themselves.
The film had its world premiere at the Sundance Film Festival on January 22, 2018. It was released on August 10, 2018, by Oscilloscope Laboratories. The film received critical acclaim, particularly for Howard's performance, which was hailed by IndieWire as one of the 50 best performances of the 2010s decade.


== Plot ==
Madeline is a lonely teenager who is part of a professional acting ensemble creating an experimental theater performance about The Three Little Pigs using improvisation. She enjoys the company of the other actors and their director Evangeline, and dreads having to go home to her mother Regina who doesn't understand Madeline and often starts arguments. One day at rehearsal, Madeline confesses to Evangeline that she had a dream in which she placed a hot iron on her mother. Struck by this dream, Evangeline decides to have the performers recreate it in an improv exercise. Madeline gets overwhelmed at how her life is conflating with her art and wanders out of the theater alone while Regina looks for her. After she finds Madeline, Regina discovers that Madeline's prescription for an unspecified mental illness has run out, and she struggles to get it quickly refilled.
Evangeline gradually makes Madeline's life the central focus of the theater performance they are devising. During a promotional photoshoot, Evangeline asks Regina to pose in the photo with Madeline. One rehearsal ends early, so Madeline goes to Evangeline's house for a birthday party, where she shows off her acting skills to the uncomfortable guests and hits on Evangeline's husband. After speaking with Evangeline about their mutual feelings of self-consciousness and vulnerability, Madeline reveals that she wants to leave the group and Evangeline agrees that Madeline should take a break from acting for a bit.
Madeline is relieved at her new found creative freedom but is dismayed when Evangeline stops by Madeline's house. She and Regina end up bonding over a couple glasses of wine, and Evangeline convinces Regina that she would be an excellent actor if she tried it. She tells Regina to stop by rehearsal the next day. All three women show up to the rehearsal, and Evangeline has them do an exercise where everyone pretends to be Regina, but Madeline's version of her mother is too real and it hits a nerve: Regina leaves the rehearsal crying.
Evangeline loves how real the emotions are, and asks the performers to recreate that scene again while she takes an important phone call outside. The performers are disgusted by the way Evangeline has been exploiting Madeline's emotions and identity, and they lock the door. They quickly devise a performance for Evangeline: a confrontational journey through the winding rehearsal building.
At first Evangeline objects to being shoved around by everyone, but eventually despite struggling, she is used as part of the performance. The troupe ends up outside in the street, all dancing together in the sunlight as Madeline walks in the opposite direction.


== Cast ==
Helena Howard as Madeline
Miranda July as Regina
Molly Parker as Evangeline
Okwui Okpokwasili as Nurse KK 
Julee Cerda as Carrie 
Sunita Mani as Assistant Max
Felipe Bonilla as Santos, Cousin Elmer 
Lisa Tharps as Laura
Curtiss Cook as George
Reynaldo Piniella as Jaime 


== Production ==
Josephine Decker directed the film and wrote its screenplay. Camera work was handled by Ashley Connor, and music was composed by Caroline Shaw. The film's producers were Krista Parris and Elizabeth Rao.
De