Major Payne is a 1995 American military comedy film directed by Nick Castle and starring Damon Wayans, who wrote with Dean Lorey and Gary Rosen. The film co-stars Karyn Parsons, Steven Martini, and Michael Ironside. It is a loose remake of the 1955 film The Private War of Major Benson, starring Charlton Heston.  Major Payne was released in the United States on March 24 and grossed $30 million.  Wayans plays a military officer who, after being discharged, attempts to lead a dysfunctional group of youth cadets to victory in a competition.


== Plot ==
Major Benson Winifred Payne, a battle-hardened Marine, returns from a successful drug raid in South America to find out that he has been passed over for promotion to Lieutenant Colonel. Payne receives an honorable discharge and tries to adjust to civilian life but ends up being arrested. His former commander gets him out of jail and secures him a position back in the military.
Payne is sent to Madison Preparatory School in Virginia and is given command of the  JROTC students. The cadets are a disorderly group of delinquents and outcasts who have placed last in the Virginia Military Games for eight straight years. Payne immediately takes a hard stance with the cadets and asserts his authority.  He shaves the cadets bald and moves them out of their dorms and into a dilapidated barracks. Payne's harsh punishments and lack of empathy for the cadets lead to friction with school counselor Emily Walburn, who tries to soften Payne's approach.
The cadets, encouraged by the rebellious leader Alex Stone, make several attempts to sabotage Payne and drive him out of the school, eventually culminating in the cadets hiring a biker to assault Payne; in the aftermath, Payne makes Alex the squad leader. Things come to a head, and Payne offers to quit if the cadets steal the Military Games trophy from Wellington Academy. However, Payne tips off the Wellington cadets, who ambush the Madison cadets and beat them severely. Realizing they must earn the trophy honestly, the cadets practice diligently for the Military Games. They develop into a unified squad, and Payne tells them that they have graduated from the program and are fit to compete in the games.
Before the games, Payne is asked to return to the Marines to fight in Bosnia under the rank he was passed over for promotion. He eagerly accepts the new posting, but his deployment means he will miss the Military Games. As Payne waits for a train to depart, he daydreams about being in a family with Emily and her foster son, Tiger. The cadets don't want to participate in the Games without Payne, but Alex convinces them to do it. At the games, the boys hold their own until Alex injures his ankle and is unable to participate in the final event. The Madison cadets accuse Wellington of hurting Alex, which turns into a rumble. The fight is broken up, and the judges deliberate having Madison disqualified.
Payne refuses his new posting and commission and shows up at the last minute. He smooths things over with the judges and tells Tiger to lead Madison in the final event, a drill competition. The group executes an unorthodox but entertaining routine which wins them the trophy. On the first day of the new school year, Madison displays the Military Games trophy, along with Alex’s individual achievement trophy. Payne resumes being an instructor, having married Emily and adopted Tiger. Stone resumes his role as a squad leader, as Tiger becomes assistant squad leader. Payne has softened a bit, attempting to befriend the recruits, but when a disrespectful blind cadet shows up with his service dog, Payne reasserts his dominance by shaving both him and his dog bald with his field knife and laughs.


== Cast ==
Damon Wayans as Major Benson Winifred Payne, a battle-hardened Marine.  Payne has difficulty adjusting to life outside the military.
Karyn Parsons as Emily Walburn, the school counselor.  She and Payne clash over his style of training the cadets.
William Hickey a