Major League is a 1989 American sports comedy film produced by Chris Chesser and Irby Smith, written and directed by David S. Ward, that stars Tom Berenger, Charlie Sheen, Wesley Snipes, James Gammon, Bob Uecker, Rene Russo, Margaret Whitton, Dennis Haysbert, and Corbin Bernsen.
Telling the story of a single regular season of a fictionalized version of the Cleveland Indians baseball team, Major League grossed $75 million worldwide from an $11 million budget and spawned two sequels (Major League II and Major League: Back to the Minors), neither of which repeated the success of the original film.


== Plot ==
Former Las Vegas showgirl Rachel Phelps inherits the struggling Cleveland Indians baseball team from her deceased husband. She reveals to her general manager, Charlie Donovan, that she intends to move the team to  Miami by exploiting an escape clause in their contract with the city of Cleveland: if their season attendance falls below a certain number, she can terminate the lease and move the team. She plans to create the worst team in the major leagues, instructing team executives to fire the current players and replace them with rookies and veterans long past their prime. She starts by hiring Lou Brown, 30-year manager of the Triple-A Toledo Mud Hens, who runs a tire store in the off season.
Spring training begins in Tucson, Arizona, with Phelps' list of players likely to fail: Jake Taylor, a former all-star catcher with bad knees; third baseman Roger Dorn, a prima donna more concerned with his financial portfolio than playing good baseball; aging starting pitcher Eddie Harris, who has resorted to doctoring the baseball; outfielder Pedro Cerrano, a voodoo-practicing power slugger who has trouble hitting breaking balls; speedy outfielder Willie Mays Hayes, who can steal bases but can't hit; and rookie pitcher Ricky Vaughn, an ex-con who has a 100-mph fastball but no control, earning him the nickname "Wild Thing."
Early on, the players struggle to come together as a team, with a feud developing between Dorn and Vaughn, but they win a few games under Brown and Taylor's leadership. They discover Vaughn has poor eyesight, and once fitted with glasses, he becomes a dominant pitcher. Team morale and performance improve, so Phelps cancels several amenities, but they continue to build on their strengths. Meanwhile, Taylor reconnects with his old girlfriend Lynn and tries to rekindle their relationship, even though she is engaged to be married.
Nearly three-quarters of the way through the season, the team is 60-61, far exceeding expectations, and fans have begun to fill the stands. At this point, Donovan, tired of Phelps' manipulations, reveals her scheme to Brown, who informs the team that she intended them to finish last so she could fire them all, then get better players after the move to Miami. Taylor decides that the only thing left to do is "win the whole fuckin' thing," to which the team agrees. 
The Indians climb in the standings until they are tied with the New York Yankees for first place in the American League East division on the final day of the season, requiring a one-game playoff to determine the division champion and a bid to the ALCS. Watching the team's celebration on television, Dorn's wife Suzanne sees him in an amorous embrace with another woman. In revenge, she sleeps with Vaughn (who is unaware of who she is) and informs Dorn just before he leaves for the ballpark the next morning. 
In the playoff game, the Yankees take a 2-0 lead, but the Indians tie the game. In the bottom of the ninth, Hayes scores the run that wins the Indians the division. As the team celebrates, Dorn finds Vaughn, punches him, then embraces him. Taylor sees Lynn, who no longer is wearing her engagement ring; she joins him in the celebration.


=== Alternate ending ===
The theatrical release shows Rachel Phelps in the owner's box in the final game showing dismay with the team's success, and this is the last time she is seen. An alternate 