The Man in the Iron Mask is a 1998 American action drama film written, directed, and produced by Randall Wallace in his directorial debut. It stars Leonardo DiCaprio in a dual role as the title character and the villain, Jeremy Irons as Aramis, John Malkovich as Athos, Gérard Depardieu as Porthos, and Gabriel Byrne as D'Artagnan. Some characters are from Alexandre Dumas's D'Artagnan Romances and some plot elements are very loosely adapted from his 1847–1850 novel The Vicomte de Bragelonne. This was Leonardo DiCaprio's first film following the success of Titanic (1997).
The film centers on the aging four musketeers, Athos, Porthos, Aramis, and D'Artagnan, during the reign of King Louis XIV. It explores the mystery of the Man in the Iron Mask, with a plot closer to the flamboyant 1929 version starring Douglas Fairbanks, The Iron Mask, and the 1939 version, directed by James Whale, than to the original Dumas book. The film received mixed reviews but was a financial success, grossing $183 million worldwide against a budget of $35 million.


== Plot ==
The Kingdom of France faces bankruptcy from King Louis XIV's wars against the Dutch, causing French citizens to starve. As the country moves toward revolution, King Louis prepares for war and orders that rotten food be distributed to save money. At this point, the four Musketeers have gone their separate ways; Aramis is now a Jesuit priest, Porthos is a womanizing drunkard suffering from various ailments, and Athos has retired to his farm. Only D'Artagnan has remained in service and is now Captain of the king's guard.
Athos' only son, Raoul, aspires to join the Musketeers. At a palace festival, Louis sets his eyes on Christine Bellefort, Raoul's fiancée. He immediately plots to send Raoul to the battlefront, where he is killed soon after. Aware that Louis orchestrated his son's death, Athos renounces his allegiance to the king. After an assassination attempt on Louis by a disguised Jesuit is foiled by D'Artagnan, Louis instructs Aramis to hunt down and kill their leader. In response, Aramis summons Porthos, Athos, and D'Artagnan for a secret meeting in which he reveals he is the Jesuits' secret leader and has a plan to depose Louis. Athos and Porthos agree to join him, but D'Artagnan refuses. Athos brands him a traitor and threatens him with death should they ever meet again. Meanwhile, Louis seduces Christine, who later begins to suspect his part in Raoul's death.
The Musketeers infiltrate the Île Sainte-Marguerite prison and free a prisoner wearing an iron mask. The prisoner is taken to the countryside, where Aramis reveals he is Philippe, King Louis' brother. Their mother, Queen Anne, gave birth to identical twins. Louis XIII, to avoid dynastic warfare between his sons, ordered that Philippe be raised in the country with no knowledge of his true identity. As Louis XIII was dying, he revealed Philippe's existence to Anne and Louis XIV. Anne wanted to restore Philippe's birthright, but Louis, fearful of losing his throne, forced Aramis to seal Philippe in the iron mask and imprison him for life. Aramis wishes to redeem himself and save France by replacing Louis with the more benevolent Philippe. The Musketeers tutor Philippe in courtly life and how to behave like Louis. Meanwhile, Athos develops paternal feelings for Philippe.
At a masquerade ball, the Musketeers lure Louis to his quarters and subdue him. They dress Philippe in Louis's clothes and return him to the festivities while taking Louis to a waiting boat in the dungeons. D'Artagnan, however, sees through the ruse after Christine accuses Philippe publicly and he fails to dismiss her in Louis' manner. He and his men intercept Athos, Porthos, and Aramis before they can escape with Louis. The king is rescued as the three Musketeers get away, but Philippe is captured. D'Artagnan, upon learning Philippe's true identity, begs Louis to spare his brother. Louis, knowing that Philippe's worst fear is to be put back into the iron mask