Manhattan Murder Mystery is a 1993 American black comedy mystery film directed by Woody Allen, which he wrote with Marshall Brickman, and starring Allen, Alan Alda, Anjelica Huston, and Diane Keaton. The film centers on a married couple's investigation of the death of their neighbor's wife.
The film began as an early draft of Annie Hall, which Allen co-wrote with Brickman. Eventually, the script evolved and principal photography took place in 1992, in the titular city. It was released in August 1993 to positive reviews. Keaton was nominated for a Golden Globe Award for Best Actress – Motion Picture Comedy or Musical. This film marked the eighth, and most recent, collaboration between Allen and Keaton.


== Plot ==
Larry Lipton, an editor at HarperCollins, and his wife Carol have a pleasant encounter in the elevator with older neighbors, Paul and Lillian House. They are invited to an evening with the Houses where the women exchange information on exercise routines. The next day, Lillian dies of a heart attack, shocking the Liptons as she appeared robust and healthy. They become suspicious of Paul's cheerfulness after his wife's death. When Carol brings the widower a dessert, she finds a crematory urn under his kitchen sink that contradicts his story about Lillian's burial. Carol decides to investigate and steals the key to the House apartment from the super, entering when Paul is away and snooping to find two tickets to Paris and hotel reservations with a woman named “Helen Moss.” Carol dials the code for the last number dialed, and the phone is answered by someone saying “Waldron”. Paul returns while Helen is snooping, narrowly missing her hiding under the bed, but she manages to sneak out undetected. Paul later finds her reading glasses under the bed, but Carol pretends she lost them on the first visit, supposing the glasses were kicked under the bed. Appalled at his wife’s breaking and entering, Larry wants her to stop. Obsessed, Carol engages the cooperation of their more adventurous close friend, Ted, who becomes as obsessed as Carol with the mystery.
Carol and Ted track down Helen Moss, an actress, whom they surveil. A few days later, Carol spots a woman who looks identical to Lillian on a passing bus. Larry suggests she has a twin, but Ted finds out Lillian has none. Ted and Carol follow the bus route to the end, discovering a shabby Hotel Waldron. Returning later, Carol and Larry find Lillian dead in the bedroom. The responding police find no trace of the body. Carol surmises that Paul was hiding in the closet when they found the body and then moved the body. Later, Carol and Larry they find Lillian's body in the emergency exit panel of the elevator. They see Paul putting the body in a car and witness him disposing of the body by dropping it into an industrial melting furnace.
Marcia Fox, an author that Larry publishes, is drawn into the amateur investigation when Larry sets her up on a date with Ted. Marcia theorizes that the dead body was Lillian's wealthy sister, who resembled her and had a heart attack while visiting the Houses. The Houses took advantage of the situation by claiming Lillian had died so Lillian could impersonate her sister, hiding at the Waldron Hotel, while cleaning out her sister’s bank accounts and liquidating her assets. After getting the funds, Paul double-crossed Lillian and killed her so he could run away with the younger Helen. Marcia devises a plan to trick Paul into incriminating himself by using Helen, someone he trusts, to claim she saw Lillian’s unincinerated body.
Ted, a playwright theater owner, sets up a false audition for actress Helen Moss, having her read aloud a phony script with innocuous text written by Ted that will not tip off Helen while they secretly record her. Splicing together words from the recorded script, they create a phone call from Helen to Paul warning that she has been shown Lillian’s unincinerated body by blackmailers who want $200,000 to give up the body. Using 