Marked for Death is a 1990 American action film directed by Dwight H. Little. The film stars Steven Seagal as John Hatcher, a former DEA troubleshooter who returns to his Illinois hometown to find it taken over by a posse of vicious Jamaican drug dealers led by Screwface. Using a combination of fear and Obeah, a Jamaican syncretic religion of West African and Caribbean origin similar to Haitian vodou and Santería, Screwface rules the drug trade in Lincoln Heights.


== Plot ==
John Hatcher and his partner pursue Hector on foot. Later, at a drug deal, Hector is revealed to have blown John's cover and his partner is killed. He returns home and he retires from working from the DEA. He visits his friend Max Keller, who is disturbed to see Jamaican drug dealers, known as Posse, hanging around the school where he works. Later at a bar, they see the dealers again, and a gunfight breaks out. John manages to assist in arresting one of the Jamaicans and a responding FBI agent asks him to join the case; he refuses. At the scene, a detective finds a symbol which an expert named Leslie reveals to be a religious icon to mark the crimes of a man called Screwface.
Screwface sends some men to do a drive-by at John's sister's house (where he is staying); they wound his niece Tracey. John interrogates a gangster he saw in the club shootout called Jimmy Fingers, but he refuses to help and John is forced to kill him. One of Screwface's men, who is Jimmy's accomplice, arrives and only gives a small clue on Screwface before defenestrating. Upon returning to his sister's house, John finds the same symbol on a rug along with a cow tongue and black cross nailed to the door. Leslie informs him that such symbols mark the person for death. John demands that the FBI provide protection for his family.
During a call with his sister, she is attacked again by Screwface's men in an attempt to ritually sacrifice her. John rushes and arrives in time as Screwface flees. John enlists Max's help to go after the gang and try to find Screwface, trailing some of his gang in a park and engage in a chase ending in a high-end store. John and Max kill several of them but do not learn anything about Screwface. However, Screwface manages to ambush John that night, trapping his car between two construction vehicles and burning it with a molotov cocktail, but John escapes.
Charles Marks, a Jamaican detective working with the FBI on Screwface's crimes, reaches out to John and Max and offers his help. Together they acquire new weapons and go to Jamaica, where Screwface is thought to have fled. With the help of a former girlfriend of his, they presumably get an address and a clue: she says that Screwface has two heads and four eyes. The three descend on Screwface's complex during a party one evening. John uses an explosive device to distract the guards and cut the power; Max and Charles open fire on the ambushing Posse gang while John infiltrates the house. He is captured and prepared for a ritual sacrifice by Screwface but escapes his bonds and manages to behead Screwface in a swordfight.
They return to Chicago and present Screwface's head and sword to the remaining loyal gang members in order to blackmail them, but Screwface surprisingly appears and a gunfight erupts, killing Charles. Max covers John's chase of Screwface, who turns out to be a twin brother and was responsible for all the Posse crimes in the United States. After a lengthy fight, John manages to blind Screwface and throw him down an elevator shaft, where his gang sees his body impaled on a spike. John and Max leave the crime scene with Charles' body in tow.


== Cast ==


== Production ==
Steven Seagal had wanted to hire director Dwight Little for his second feature, Hard to Kill, but studio Warner Bros. vetoed his choice, and went with Bruce Malmuth instead. According to Little, Seagal had the option in his contract with Warner to do one film with another studio. Seagal chose to exercise that option and make his