The Mark of Zorro is a 1940 American black-and-white swashbuckling film released by 20th Century-Fox, directed by Rouben Mamoulian, produced by Darryl F. Zanuck, and starring Tyrone Power, Linda Darnell, and Basil Rathbone. The supporting cast features Eugene Pallette, Gale Sondergaard, and Robert Lowery (the second actor to portray Batman on film). The film is based on the novel The Curse of Capistrano by Johnston McCulley, originally published in 1919 in five serialized installments in All-Story Weekly, which introduced the masked hero Zorro; the story is set in Southern California during the early 19th century. After the enormous success of the silent 1920 film adaptation, the novel was republished under that name by Grosset & Dunlap. The Mark of Zorro was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Original Score. The film was named to the National Film Registry in 2009 by the Library of Congress for being "culturally, historically or aesthetically significant", and to be preserved for all time.


== Plot ==
Don Diego Vega is urgently called home by his father. To all outward appearances, he is the foppish son of a wealthy ranchero, the former alcalde Don Alejandro Vega, having returned to Alta California after his military education in Spain.
Don Diego is horrified at the way the common people are now mistreated by the corrupt new alcalde, Luis Quintero. Don Diego quickly adopts the guise of El Zorro ("The Fox"), a masked outlaw dressed entirely in black, who becomes the defender of the common people and a champion for justice against the uncaring Quintero and his garrison of brutish soldiers.
In the meantime, he romances the alcalde's beautiful and innocent niece, Lolita, whom he grows to love. As part of his plan, Don Diego simultaneously flirts with the alcalde's wife Inez, filling her head with tales of Madrid fashion and culture while nurturing her desire to move to Spain and finally rid California of her cruel husband.
In both his guises, Don Diego must always contend with the governor's most capable henchman, the malevolent and deadly Captain Esteban Pasquale. When the current situation comes to a head, he eventually dispatches the captain during a fast-moving rapier duel-to-the-death, as the alcalde looks on in astonishment. This action leads to a forced regime change with the help of the people of Los Angeles, the other landowners, and his father, and though Quintero is defeated, Zorro continues to fight for justice and the common people against the greedy and wicked.


== Cast ==

Tyrone Power as Don Diego Vega/Zorro
Linda Darnell as Lolita Quintero
Basil Rathbone as Captain Esteban Pasquale
Gale Sondergaard as Inez Quintero
Eugene Pallette  as Friar Felipe
J. Edward Bromberg as Don Luis Quintero
Montagu Love as Don Alejandro Vega
Janet Beecher as Senora Isabella Vega
George Regas as Sergeant Gonzales
Chris-Pin Martin as Turnkey
Robert Lowery as Rodrigo
Belle Mitchell as Maria
John Bleifer as Pedro
Frank Puglia as Proprietor
Eugene Borden as Officer of the Day
Pedro de Cordoba as Don Miguel
Guy D'Ennery as Don José
Stanley Andrews as Commanding Officer (uncredited)
Fortunio Bonanova as Sentry (uncredited)
Charles Stevens as José (uncredited)


== Remake, music score, and sequel ==
The Mark of Zorro (1974) is a made-for-television remake film starring Frank Langella and co-starring Ricardo Montalbán in the roles played by Power and Rathbone in the original. It reuses Alfred Newman's original film score, along with new incidental music composed by Dominic Frontiere.
Portions of Newman's original music score were reused by composer Ian Fraser for the George Hamilton swashbuckling comedy film Zorro, the Gay Blade (1981). The film's storyline is a tongue-in-cheek sequel to the original 1940 film.


== 1920 silent version ==

The Mark of Zorro is a sound remake of the lavish 1920 smash-hit silent film starring Douglas Fairbanks as Zorro and Noah Beery Sr. as Sergeant Gonzales. This film depiction includes Don Diego's moth