Marnie is a 1964 American psychological thriller film directed by Alfred Hitchcock from a screenplay by Jay Presson Allen, based on the 1961 novel of the same name by Winston Graham. The film stars Tippi Hedren and Sean Connery.
Marnie became a milestone for several reasons. It was the last time a "Hitchcock blonde" would have a central role in one of his films. It also marked the end of Hitchcock's collaborations with cinematographer Robert Burks, who died in 1968; editor George Tomasini, who died soon after Marnie's release; and composer Bernard Herrmann, who was fired during Hitchcock's next film, Torn Curtain (1966), when Hitchcock and Universal studio executives wanted a pop-and-jazz-influenced score for the film.


== Plot ==
Marion Holland flees with nearly $10,000 she stole from the company safe of her employer, Sidney Strutt, the head of a tax consulting company, whom she had charmed into hiring her without references. Mark Rutland, a wealthy widower who owns a publishing company in Philadelphia, meets with Strutt on business. He learns about the theft and recalls Marnie from a previous visit.
Changing her appearance and identity, Marion, whose real name is Margaret "Marnie" Edgar, travels to Virginia, where she stables a horse named Forio. She then visits her invalid mother, Bernice, whom she supports financially, in Baltimore. Marnie suffers from recurring nightmares and has an intense aversion to the color red, which triggers her hysteria.
Some months later, Marnie, posing as Mary Taylor, applies for a job at Mark's company. Mark hires her after recognizing her, cryptically telling the Personnel manager who inquires why he is accepting an applicant without references that he is an "interested spectator." While working weekend overtime with Mark, Marnie has a panic attack during a thunderstorm. Mark comforts, then kisses her. They begin dating.
Soon afterwards, Marnie steals money from Mark's company and flees again. Mark tracks her to the stable where she keeps Forio. He blackmails her into marrying him, much to the chagrin of Lil, the sister of Mark's late wife Estelle, who is in love with him. Lil grows suspicious when she discovers Mark has spent a considerable sum since marrying Marnie.
On their honeymoon cruise, Marnie resists Mark's desire for physical intimacy, revealing that she finds sex repellant. Mark initially respects her wishes, and tries to woo her, but after a few nights, they quarrel over Marnie's aloofness, and it is implied that he rapes her offscreen when he persists and she freezes without consent. The next morning, she attempts to drown herself in the ship's swimming pool, but Mark saves her.
After overhearing Marnie on a phone call, Lil tips off Mark that Marnie's mother is not dead, as Marnie claimed. Mark hires a private detective to investigate. Meanwhile, Lil overhears Mark telling Marnie he has "paid off Strutt" on her behalf. Lil mischievously invites Strutt and his wife to a party at the Rutland mansion. Strutt recognizes Marnie, but Mark pressures him into doing nothing. When Marnie later admits to additional robberies, Mark works to reimburse her victims to drop charges.
Mark brings Forio to their estate, pleasing Marnie. During a fox hunt, the red riding coat worn by one of the hunters triggers another of Marnie's fits and Forio bolts, misses a jump, injures its legs, and is left lying on the ground screaming in pain. Marnie frantically runs to a nearby house, obtains a gun, and shoots her horse. Overcome with grief, Marnie goes home, where she finds the key to Mark's office. She goes to the office and opens the safe, but finds herself unable to take the money, even after Mark arrives and "urges" her to take it to test her new reluctance to theft.
Mark takes Marnie to Baltimore to confront her mother and uncover the truth about Marnie's past. They arrive in a thunderstorm. As it is revealed that Bernice was a prostitute, Marnie's long-suppressed memories resurface: when she was a sm