Mary Reilly is a 1996 American gothic horror film directed by Stephen Frears and starring Julia Roberts and John Malkovich. It was written by Christopher Hampton and adapted from the 1990 novel of the same name by Valerie Martin (itself inspired by Robert Louis Stevenson's 1886 novella Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde).
It reunited director Frears, screenwriter Hampton, and actors Malkovich and Glenn Close, who were involved in the Oscar-winning Dangerous Liaisons (1988).
Mary Reilly was theatrically released by TriStar Pictures on February 23, 1996 to poor reviews. It was a box office bomb, making just $12 million against its $47 million budget.


== Plot ==
Mary Reilly comes to work as a maid in the household of Dr. Henry Jekyll. She and Jekyll develop a rapport and he begins to call on her for assistance, to the consternation of his butler, Poole. Jekyll is fascinated by scars Mary bears on her hand and neck, which she reluctantly allows him to examine, explaining they are from a childhood incident where her abusive father locked her in a cupboard with live rats. The staff begin to notice the doctor throwing himself into his work at odd hours, culminating in his announcement that he has hired an assistant, Edward Hyde, who is to be given full run of the household.
One night, waking from a nightmare, Mary sees Hyde leaving the house, follows him, and witnesses him paying off—with a cheque signed by Jekyll—the family of a young girl he has savagely beaten. Hyde later approaches her in the Doctor's library, crudely propositioning her and making taunting references to her relationship with her father. Mary is equally fascinated and repulsed by him.
On an errand to deliver a letter from Jekyll to Mrs. Faraday, a madam, Mary learns that a bloody mess at the whorehouse was caused by Mr. Hyde. Mrs. Faraday arrives at Jekyll's home, insists on seeing him and demands more money for her continued silence. While watering the garden, Mary notices the lights in the laboratory go out and, investigating, discovers a small pool of blood on the theater table. She leaves, not noticing Hyde disposing of Mrs. Faraday's severed head.
Mary returns home to plan her mother's funeral. As she returns to Jekyll's house, Hyde grabs her in the alley and forces her into an embrace; he is being pursued by the police. He tells her that he supposes she won't see him again before kissing her and disappearing. Eventually the police question Mary about the murder of Sir Danvers Carew, a friend of Jekyll's and a Member of Parliament, and she denies having seen Hyde that day. Jekyll later warns Mary that she should not have lied to the police. In any case, because the public killing of Carew cannot be "easily swept under the carpet", Hyde must leave London; that is why, Jekyll explains, he has bribed and made Hyde swear to disappear forever.
Days later, Mary is surprised to discover Hyde in the doctor's bed. When she tries to raise the alarm, he stops her and explains that, as a cure for depression, Jekyll injects himself with a serum that transforms him into Hyde, who later injects the "antidote" to resume being Jekyll. Hyde says he now has the ability to appear without the aid of the serum, and tries to persuade her to have sex with him. Mary is shocked, finding all of this hard to believe; he lets her go before turning himself back into Jekyll.
Jekyll sends Poole to a chemist's to analyze an impure drug and recreate it, telling him that it is a matter of life and death. Jekyll then asks Mary to prepare a room for him in his laboratory, where he plans to spend most of his time. Poole returns, having not been able to retrieve a satisfactory sample of the drug. Mary visits the laboratory, where she hears Jekyll sobbing, but quietly retreats.
Mary packs to leave during the night, but on her way out, she decides to visit the lab. There Hyde attacks her and holds a knife to her throat, but he cannot bring himself to kill her. He then injects himself with the a