The Mask of Zorro is a 1998 American swashbuckler film based on the fictional character Zorro by Johnston McCulley. It was directed by Martin Campbell and stars Antonio Banderas, Anthony Hopkins, Catherine Zeta-Jones, and Stuart Wilson. The film features the original Zorro, Don Diego de la Vega (Hopkins),  escaping from prison to find his long-lost daughter (Zeta-Jones) and avenge the death of his wife at the hands of the corrupt governor Rafael Montero (Wilson). He is aided by his successor (Banderas), who is pursuing his own vendetta against the governor's right-hand man while falling in love with de la Vega's daughter.
Executive producer Steven Spielberg had initially developed the film for TriStar Pictures with directors Mikael Salomon and Robert Rodriguez, before Campbell signed on in 1996. Salomon cast Sean Connery as Don Diego de la Vega, while Rodriguez brought Banderas in the lead role. Connery dropped out and was replaced with Hopkins, and The Mask of Zorro began filming in January 1997 at Estudios Churubusco in Mexico City, Mexico.
The film was released in the United States on July 17, 1998 to critical and commercial success, grossing $250 million on a $95 million budget. The Legend of Zorro, a sequel also starring Banderas and Zeta-Jones and directed by Campbell, was released in 2005, but did not fare as well as its predecessor.


== Plot ==
In 1821, masked swordsman Zorro defends the commoners of Las Californias from Spain's soldiers. Don Rafael Montero, Las Californias' corrupt governor, sets a trap for Zorro at the public execution of three peasants. Zorro stops the execution, aided by two young brothers, Alejandro and Joaquín Murrieta. Zorro thanks them by giving Joaquín a medallion. Don Rafael deduces that nobleman Don Diego de la Vega is Zorro and attempts to arrest him at his home. A swordfight begins, a fire breaks out, and de la Vega's wife Esperanza, for whom Montero held an unrequited love, dies as a result. While the mansion burns, Montero takes Esperanza's infant daughter, Elena, as his own before sending Diego to prison and returning to Spain.
In 1841, Alejandro and Joaquín are bandits, running a scam to collect the bounty on their heads and steal a strongbox. They, however, are caught by Captain Harrison Love, Montero's new American right-hand man. Alejandro escapes, while Joaquín shoots himself to avoid capture. Meanwhile, Montero returns to California with the now-adult Elena. Because of Montero, Elena believes that her mother died in childbirth and that he is her father. 
Montero's reappearance motivates Diego to escape captivity. He encounters Alejandro getting drunk and recognizes the medallion. He agrees to make Alejandro his protégé in order for them to battle their respective enemies, Montero and Love. Alejandro agrees to undergo Diego's training regimen in Zorro's secret cave underneath the ruins of his family estate to be able to take revenge. In addition, Alejandro seeks to succeed Diego as Zorro. While still being trained, Alejandro steals a stallion resembling Zorro's steed Tornado from a garrison. Diego scolds Alejandro, asserting that Zorro was a servant of the people, not a thief or seeker of fame. He challenges Alejandro to gain Montero's trust and acquire charm instead. 
Alejandro poses as a visiting nobleman named Don Alejandro del Castillo y García, with Diego as his servant "Bernardo", and attends a party at Montero's hacienda. There, he earns Elena's admiration and enough of Montero's trust to be invited to a secret meeting between noblemen. Montero hints at a plan to retake California for the Dons and proclaim it as an independent republic by buying it from General Santa Anna, who needs money for the upcoming Mexican–American War.
Montero takes Alejandro and the noblemen to "El Dorado", a secret gold mine where peasants and prisoners are used for slave labor. The plan is to buy California from Santa Anna using gold which appears from Spain but is actually mined from his own lan