"Maximum Overdrive" is a song by Belgian-Dutch Eurodance band 2 Unlimited, released in November 1993 by Byte, ZYX and PWL as the fourth single from their second album, No Limits! (1993). The song was written by band members Ray Slijngaard and Anita Dels with Phil Wilde and Filip Martens, while Wilde produced it with Jean-Paul De Coster. The UK release was the first UK single to maintain all the rap lyrics from Ray used in the European release. "Maximum Overdrive" reached number 15 on the UK Singles Chart, and was also a number-one hit in Finland and on the European Dance Radio Chart by Music & Media. Its accompanying music video was directed by David Betteridge and filmed in London.


== Critical reception ==
In his weekly UK chart commentary, James Masterton stated, "In as much as it is possible to classify things like this, 2 Unlimited are the most successful dance act ever." In Pan-European magazine Music & Media's review of No Limits!, they viewed the song as a "potential single", "with a racing car breaking all speed limits." Alan Jones from Music Week commented, "He raps, she sings, the music ponds in typical pop/rave style...yes, the usual 2 Unlimited hallmarks are present and correct, though melodically this is perhaps the weakest single they've released yet. Even so, this will probably scrape into the Top 10." James Hamilton from the Record Mirror Dance Update described it as "typical rapped and chanted revving techno-pop". Alex Kadis from Smash Hits gave the song three out of five, writing that "it all hangs together in such a pleasant, catchy way that you're spirited to the record shop in a most unhesitant manner."


== Chart performance ==
The release scored chart success in many European countries, topping the chart in Finland as well as Music & Media's European Dance Radio Chart. It peaked at number two in Portugal and Spain. And at number four in Belgian Flanders and number five in the Netherlands. On MTV's European Top 20, it reached number three. In Portugal, the single was held off reaching the number-one position by Depeche Mode's "Condemnation". It was also a top-20 hit in Austria (13), Denmark (14), Germany (16), Ireland (11), Sweden (18), and the UK. In the latter, it peaked at number 15 in its second week at the UK Singles Chart, on 21 November 1993, and number 13 on the UK Dance Singles Chart. "Maximum Overdrive" stormed into the Eurochart Hot 100 on 28 November at number 19 and peaked three weeks later at number seven. Outside Europe, it made it to number 32 in Australia.


== Airplay ==
"Maximum Overdrive" entered the European airplay chart Border Breakers at number 19 on 14 November 1993 following crossover airplay in North West-Europe. It peaked at number five on 18 December.


== Music video ==
The music video for "Maximum Overdrive", directed by British director David Betteridge and produced by A&R Filmstudios in London. The concept of the video is a Wacky Races style chase with rivals on skateboards and pogo sticks. It was filmed in a warehouse in Northern London in the fall of 1993 and released on 8 November. The video received heavy rotation on MTV Europe and was A-listed on Germany's VIVA. In December 2013, it was also made available on 2 Unlimited's official YouTube channel, and as of early 2024, the video had generated more than a half million views. Betteridge had previously directed the videos for "Get Ready for This", "Twilight Zone", "Workaholic" and "The Magic Friend".


== Track listings ==


== Charts ==


== References ==