Meet the Parents is a 1992 American independent comedy film written by Greg Glienna and Mary Ruth Clarke. Glienna also directed the film; wrote the original songs "Keep Smiling" (performed by Walter Tabayoyong) and "When Philip's There" (performed by Clarke); and starred as protagonist Greg: a young man meeting his fiancée's parents for the first time who sets off a series of accidents and causes the family to fall apart. Emo Philips served as an associate producer, wrote the film's title theme song (performed by Mary Louise Herrold), and made a cameo as a video store employee.
Filmed on an approximately $100,000 budget and shot in and around Chicago in 1991, Meet the Parents was not widely distributed and did not earn a large box office profit upon its limited release. It did, however, garner some critical acclaim and film industry attention towards remaking the film on a bigger budget.
Several years after its release, Universal Pictures purchased the rights to the independent film and hired screenwriter Jim Herzfeld to expand the script. A new version of Meet the Parents was filmed and released in October 2000. The 2000 version in turn inspired two movie sequels
and two television series.


== Plot ==
A man and his fiancée driving out to meet her parents stop to get gas at a gas station. The man mentions his plans to the owner, who advises him against it, then begins the tale of Greg: an advertising agent who went to meet his fiancée Pam's parents, Irv and Kay Burns, for a weekend that ended disastrously.
Despite his efforts to impress the Burnses, Greg sets off a number of mishaps. He breaks Irv's Victrola, overflows the toilet, ruins Kay's roast, rents a film starring Andy Griffith as a rapist and chainsaw killer, nearly stabs Kay’s eye with a fishing pole, gets framed for marijuana planted in his suitcase and a $50 bill missing from Kay's purse, collides with a hit-and-run driver while in the family's car, drowns their dog Bingo after throwing a stick into a lake, and earns the wrath of Pam's ex-boyfriend Lee when he declines Lee's offer to dance with her.
Throughout the visit, Pam's sister Fay, an aspiring singer and the true marijuana user, insists Greg hear her Star Search audition since she mistakenly thinks he has ties with Ed McMahon, who appeared in a commercial Greg wrote. On the second night, Greg, who has been told to sleep on the living room couch, enters Fay's bedroom while searching for Pam's.
Near the end of the visit, Greg's car breaks down. He plans to flee the house with Pam, who urges him to stay one more night. He then unintentionally causes a portrait of Irv's late mother Penny to fall on an urn containing her ashes. 
With no reputation left to lose, Greg listens to Fay sing a ballad entitled "When Philip's There". She begs him for suggestions, and he reluctantly gives slight criticism, leaving her furious. Fay then tells her family Greg entered her room the previous night but claims he wanted to cheat on Pam with her. Pam locks herself in her room, and Irv orders Greg to leave. As Greg opens the front door, he and Pam's parents hear her scream from upstairs. Irv discovers Fay has hanged herself with a sign reading "Greg killed me" around her neck, rushes downstairs, and fires his gun as Kay attempts to intervene.
When asked if Irv killed Greg, the gas station owner explains that Irv accidentally killed Kay and Pam, then died of a heart attack, while Greg turned out fine. The customer leaves, now uneasy about meeting his fiancée's parents. Another customer arrives on his way to take his children to a circus, and the owner advises him against it, beginning a new story.


== Cast ==
John Da Cosse as First Customer
Karen Ann Gronowski as Fiancée
James Vincent as Gas Station Owner
Greg Glienna as Greg
Jacqueline Cahill as Pamela "Pam" Burns
Dick Galloway as Irv Burns
Carol Whelan as Kay Burns
Mary Ruth Clarke as Fay Burns
Emo Philips as Video Store Employee
Domenic Sfreddo as Hit & Run Driver
Harry Hickste