Menace II Society (pronounced Menace to Society) is a 1993 American teen drama film directed by the Hughes Brothers in their directorial debut. The film is set in Watts and Crenshaw neighborhoods of Los Angeles, and follows the life of Caine Lawson (Tyrin Turner) and his close friends. It gained notoriety for its scenes of violence, profanity, and drug-related content, and also received critical acclaim for the performances of Turner, Jada Pinkett, and Larenz Tate, the direction, and its realistic portrayal of urban violence and powerful underlying messages.


== Plot ==
Kaydee "Caine" Lawson and his best friend Kevin "O-Dog" Anderson enter a liquor store to buy some malt liquor, where a Korean cashier and his wife suspiciously watch and rush them to buy their drinks and leave.  As they pay and leave, the cashier insults and provokes O-Dog by saying, "I feel sorry for your mother." Consequently, O-Dog argues with him, fatally shoots both the cashier and his wife, takes the surveillance tape, robs the clerk's wallet and the cash register, and flees with Caine.
In a voice-over, Caine reveals that his father Tat, a drug dealer, was killed in a drug deal gone wrong when Caine was 10, and his mother Karen, a heroin addict, died of a drug overdose. This led to his grandparents raising him in the crime-ridden Jordan Downs housing projects.
O-Dog flaunts the surveillance tape to Caine and their admiring friends, greatly annoying Caine. Later, Caine and his cousin Harold are carjacked en route from a party, with Caine being wounded and Harold being murdered. After learning the carjackers' whereabouts, Caine, O-Dog, and their friend A-Wax, an OG, hunt them down and kill them, avenging the death of Harold.
Caine and O-Dog attempt to steal a car and are subsequently caught and bitten by a police dog. The two men get arrested after a failed car theft attempt. Caine's fingerprints match those taken from a beer bottle he dropped in the liquor store on the night of the murders, and though he is interrogated by a detective who tries to trick him by changing the times to confuse him, he soon walks free nonetheless as the police fail to link him due to O-Dog taking the tape. Caine's friends, Stacy and Sharif, try to convince him to accompany them to Kansas, and both his grandfather and Sharif's father warn him that he will either end up dead or imprisoned unless he changes his ways. Caine, nevertheless, ignores all advice.
After buying a Ford Mustang from a chop shop, Caine carjacks a young black man at a fast food restaurant for his gold Dayton wire wheels, his jewelry, and forces him to order some double cheeseburgers.  Then Caine purchases a large quantity of cocaine, and plans to sell it as crack. Caine also meets a local girl named Ilena and eventually has sex with her. While driving one night, he and Sharif are pulled over and beaten by cops. The two are dumped by the cops in a Hispanic neighborhood, but the Hispanic gang members surprisingly take them to a hospital rather than further beat them up as the police anticipated.  During his hospitalization, Caine's friend Ronnie invites him to accompany her to Atlanta, where she has found a job. Initially hesitant, he ultimately agrees.
At a party, Chauncey, a confederate of Caine in an insurance scam, drunkenly moves sexually towards Ronnie. Caine rescues her and starts pistol-whipping Chauncey, prompting Stacy and Sharif to restrain him. Ilena calls Caine and tells him she's pregnant, but he denies paternity and drops her. Chauncey retaliates by sending his copy of the surveillance tape to the police initially unbeknownst to Caine and O-Dog.
Meanwhile, Caine brutally stomps Ilena's cousin when he confronts Caine outside his grandparents' house about the pregnancy. After witnessing the stomping, Caine's grandparents tell Caine he cannot live with them anymore, while firmly standing by their decision and rejecting Caine's plea to stay until he moves to Atlanta.  As the police now have Chauncey