Message in a Bottle is a 1999 American romantic drama film directed by Luis Mandoki, based on Nicholas Sparks's novel of the same name, and starring Kevin Costner, Robin Wright (under her married name Robin Wright Penn) and Paul Newman. It was filmed in Maine, Chicago and Wilmington, North Carolina. The film follows a writer in love with a shipbuilder after finding a letter inside the bottle. The film was released February 12, 1999, by Warner Bros. Pictures. It was panned by the critics, but was a box-office hit, grossing $118 million against a $30 million budget.


== Plot ==
Theresa Osborne, a former reporter, works as a researcher for the Chicago Tribune. On a trip to Cape Cod, she finds a mysterious, intriguing and typed love letter in a bottle in the sand, addressed to Catherine. She is fascinated by it and shows it to her colleagues. They print it in their newspaper without Theresa's knowledge and receive a multitude of responses.
One of the letters contains an attached letter that was addressed to the same person, on the same letterhead and typed in the same tone. Later, they receive another letter of the same kind from one of the readers that was not addressed to Catherine, but was typed on the same notepad. Eventually, they track down the author with the help of the typewriter and the letterhead used. His name is Garrett Blake, and he lives quietly on the Outer Banks of North Carolina, near his father, Dodge.
Theresa goes to the Outer Banks to research it further, but when she meets him, they are mutually attracted and start becoming better acquainted. She tries to tell him about the original purpose of her visit but fears that she might lose him and postpones it. Along with the literal distance between them — they live hundreds of miles apart — there is another problem: Garrett cannot quite forget Catherine who died, leaving him.
Theresa's career flourishes as the romantic "message in a bottle" tale is told in print without naming names. Garrett makes a trip to Chicago to visit Theresa and her young son. They seem very happy together for a day, but he finds his letters in her nightstand, becomes upset and starts to leave. 
When Theresa reveals that there are three letters of the same kind, he becomes intrigued, as he wrote only two of them and comes back to see another letter. The third one, which was not addressed to Catherine, was actually written by Catherine. In that letter, she reveals her love, her knowledge of her impending death, and how she was content with her life with Garrett, however short it might be. He departs with the letter, leaving Theresa in tears.
Garrett moves on with his life and sets things straight with Catherine's family, who had been battling with him for Catherine's artwork. He finishes his personalized boat with the help of Catherine's brother. He names it Catherine in her honor, and sends an invitation to Theresa to visit. 
When Theresa goes there, she witnesses Garrett's passionate speech about Catherine. She understands that he still is in love with his late wife, and leaves him, saying that he is welcome to call her when he thinks that he is ready to start a new life.
After that night, Garrett writes a letter to Catherine, puts it in a bottle and goes sailing. A storm breaks out, and Garrett desperately tries to save a family from a sinking boat. He succeeds in saving two of three; however, in the process, he drowns. 
Dodge calls Theresa and informs her about Garrett's death. Heartbroken, Theresa goes there to bid farewell. Dodge gives her the letter that Garrett had intended for Catherine, found on his boat. He wrote that he had found someone else; Theresa, who is as dear as Catherine to him. He decides to start a new life with her and asks for Catherine's blessing. Although devastated, Theresa comes back contented, stating that, although this experience left her in grief, it helped her to feel the most important thing in life.


== Cast ==


== Production ==


=== Filming ===
The pr