Mighty Aphrodite is a 1995 American comedy film written, directed by, and co-starring Woody Allen, alongside Mira Sorvino, Helena Bonham Carter, Michael Rapaport, and F. Murray Abraham. The screenplay was vaguely inspired by the story of Pygmalion and is about Lenny Weinrib's (Allen) search for his genius adopted son's biological mother, ultimately finding that she is a dim-witted prostitute named Linda Ash (Sorvino).
While critical reception of Mighty Aphrodite overall was mildly positive, Sorvino was highly praised for her performance, earning several accolades such as the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress, as well as a Golden Globe Award, New York Film Critics Circle Award, Critics' Choice Movie Award, National Board of Review Award, and a Dallas–Fort Worth Film Critics Association Award.


== Plot ==
The film opens with a scene of ancient Greek ruins (the ancient theatre in Taormina, Sicily), where a Greek chorus begins to introduce and narrate the story of Lenny Weinrib. Lenny, a sportswriter in Manhattan, is married to the ambitious art curator, Amanda. The couple adopts a baby boy and names him Max. As Lenny spends more time with Max it becomes evident that the child is remarkably gifted. Intrigued, Lenny becomes obsessed with uncovering the identity of Max's biological mother.
After an extensive search Lenny discovers that Max's biological mother is a prostitute and part-time porn star who goes by various names. However she reveals her birth name as Leslie Ash and expresses her preference for being called Linda because it means ‘pretty’ in Spanish. Lenny arranges to meet Linda at her apartment but doesn't engage in any intimate activities. Instead he encourages her to leave her current lifestyle behind and pursue a more wholesome life. Linda reacts angrily, returning Lenny's money and demanding that he leave.
Undeterred, Lenny remains determined to befriend Linda and improve her circumstances. He successfully helps Linda escape her abusive pimp and then tries to match her up with a boxer named Kevin. Initially they seem like a well-matched couple but their relationship sours when Kevin discovers Linda's background.
Meanwhile Lenny and Amanda's marriage begins to falter owing to Lenny's preoccupation with Linda, Amanda's career ambitions and her affair with her colleague Jerry. Amanda eventually confesses to Lenny that she wants to explore her relationship with Jerry. However Lenny and Linda find solace in each other following their respective breakups and end up consummating their relationship. The next day, though, Lenny reconciles with Amanda, realizing that they are still deeply in love.
Linda, on the other hand, unsuccessfully tries to win back Kevin. While driving back to Manhattan she witnesses a helicopter landing and offers a lift to the pilot, Don. The Greek chorus reveals that Linda and Don will eventually marry, although Linda is now pregnant with Lenny's child. About a year later Linda (with her infant daughter) and Lenny (with Max) meet by chance in a toy store. Unaware of the connection, Linda expresses her gratitude to Lenny for his help and leaves him stunned. The film concludes with the Greek chorus performing a lively song and dance routine.


== Cast ==
Woody Allen as Lenny Weinrib
Mira Sorvino as Linda Ash
Helena Bonham Carter as Amanda Sloan Weinrib
Michael Rapaport as Kevin
F. Murray Abraham as Greek Chorus Leader
Olympia Dukakis as Jocasta
David Ogden Stiers as Laius
Jack Warden as Tiresias
Danielle Ferland as Cassandra
Peter Weller as Jerry Bender
Claire Bloom as Mrs Sloan
Paul Herman as Rick's Friend
Paul Giamatti as Extras Guild Researcher
Sondra James as The Chorus Voices


== Production ==
Dick Hyman served as the film's music coordinator, arranger, and conductor. The soundtrack includes "Neo Minore" performed by Vassilis Tsitsanis, "Horos Tou Sakena" by Stavros Xarchakos, "I've Found a New Baby" by Wilbur de Paris, "Whispering" by Benny Goodman & His Orchestra, "Manhattan" by Carmen