Mighty Morphin Power Rangers: The Movie is a 1995 American superhero film. It stars the ensemble cast of Karan Ashley, Johnny Yong Bosch, Steve Cardenas, Jason David Frank, Amy Jo Johnson, and David Yost alongside the villains cast from the original series and Paul Freeman as Ivan Ooze. Much like the television season that followed the release, it used concepts from the Japanese Super Sentai series Kyōryū Sentai Zyuranger, Gosei Sentai Dairanger and Ninja Sentai Kakuranger. It is the first Power Rangers production from Saban Entertainment not to feature any archived footage from Super Sentai. It is the first installment in the Power Rangers film series. The film was released in between the second and third seasons of Mighty Morphin Power Rangers, but is incompatible with season three, which provides a different explanation for the Rangers gaining their Ninja Ranger powers and Ninjazords, indicating they are set in different continuities.
Filming took place in and around Bombo Quarry, Sydney, and Queensland in Australia. This film was released June 30, 1995 and grossed $66.43 million worldwide, but received mixed reviews from critics. The critics praised its action sequences and performances, but felt that the film was nothing more than a longer episode of the series with better special effects, pointing to the plot and screenplay as the main faults.


== Plot ==
The Mighty Morphin Power Rangers participate with Bulk and Skull in a charity skydive for the Angel Grove observatory, in anticipation of Ryan's Comet which is scheduled to pass by in two days. Bulk and Skull miss the target landing zone and accidentally land at a construction site where a giant purple egg has been unearthed. Zordon then summons the Rangers, and tells them of Ivan Ooze, an evil morphological being who ruled Earth 6,000 years ago, before he was lured into a hyper-lock chamber and buried deep underground by Zordon and a group of young warriors. Zordon sends the Rangers to the construction site to return the egg to its chamber, before it is opened. However, Lord Zedd, Rita Repulsa, Goldar and Mordant arrive at the construction site first, and crack open the egg, releasing Ivan Ooze. The Rangers confront Ivan, who unleashes Oozemen on them. While the Rangers defeat the Oozemen, Ivan escapes and lays siege to the Command Center, incapacitating Zordon, and robbing the Rangers of their powers. At the destroyed Command Center, Zordon, being outside his time warp, starts aging and dying. 
Zordon's assistant Alpha 5 sends the Rangers on a quest to the planet Phaedos to obtain the Great Power and save Zordon. On the Moon, Rita is initially dismayed that the Rangers escaped Ivan unharmed. However, Ivan usurps her and Zedd, shrinking and trapping them in a snow globe, and forces Goldar and Mordant to be his servants. He then sends his Tengu warriors to Phaedos and begins building an army. He uses children to bring his  ooze to their parents, and it hypnotizes them into becoming his workforce to dig up his Ecto-Morphicons, twin war machines built during his reign. After finding his father working at the construction site, Fred Kelman, a friend of the Rangers, figures out Ivan's plans.
On Phaedos, the Rangers are almost killed by the Tengu but are rescued by Dulcea, the planet's Master Warrior. Dulcea initially tells the Rangers to leave for their safety, but after hearing of Zordon's plight, she agrees to help and takes them to an ancient temple where they will have to overcome obstacles to acquire the power of the Ninjetti. Dulcea awakens each Rangers' animal spirit; Aisha is the bear, Rocky is the ape, Billy is the wolf, Kimberly is the crane, Adam is the frog, and Tommy is the falcon. Upon being asked if she could join them, Dulcea reveals that she would begin to age as rapidly as Zordon is if she leaves the temple. She then shapeshifts into an owl to preserve her age. The Rangers make their way to the Monolith housing the Great Power, using their wits to defeat 