The Mirror Has Two Faces is a 1996 American romantic comedy-drama film produced and directed by Barbra Streisand, who also stars. The screenplay by Richard LaGravenese is loosely based on the 1958 French film Le Miroir à deux faces written by André Cayatte and Gérard Oury. Also starring are Jeff Bridges, Pierce Brosnan, George Segal, Mimi Rogers, Brenda Vaccaro, and Lauren Bacall. The story focuses on a shy, middle-aged professor (Bridges) who enters into a platonic relationship with an unlucky-in-love colleague (Streisand).
The film was released in the United States on November 15, 1996, and grossed $82 million. Streisand, Marvin Hamlisch, Robert John "Mutt" Lange, and Bryan Adams composed the film's theme song, "I Finally Found Someone". Streisand sang it on the soundtrack with Adams.


== Plot ==
Rose Morgan, a middle-aged English literature professor at Columbia University, lives with her vain, overbearing, widowed mother, Hannah. While attending her sister Claire's third wedding (to Rose's former crush Alex), Rose tells her best friend Doris that although she is certain she will never get married, she also believes it might feel wonderful to have a partner who truly knows her.
Gregory Larkin is a Columbia math professor unable to connect with his students and loses perspective when aroused by an attractive woman. Shortly after Gregory begins a talk about his new book, his ex-girlfriend Candace arrives. She flusters him so much that he has a panic attack and is unable to continue. While recovering, Gregory begs his friend Henry not to let him go home with Candace, but leaves with her the moment she offers. Back at Gregory's place, Candace leaves immediately after they have sex. She is still with her new boyfriend, but wanted to bolster her ego because he was cheating on her.
Left in a state of frustration and rejection, Gregory places a personal ad that reads, "Columbia University professor (male) seeks woman interested in common goals and companionship. Must have Ph.D. and be over thirty-five. Physical appearance not important!" Claire secretly responds to the ad for Rose, and that night, after Gregory visits one of Rose's classes, he asks her out to dinner. They begin a relationship akin to dating, but without any physical intimacy beyond an occasional hug.
Three months later, Gregory proposes. He emphasizes that their relationship will be built on common interests and mutual affection, not sex. However, he does agree to occasional sex, provided Rose gives him enough warning. Gregory and Rose marry in a courthouse ceremony. The relationship continues to grow and become more emotionally intimate, with hints of physical attraction.
While discussing Gregory's European book tour at breakfast, Rose asks him if now is enough warning to tell him she would like to have sex that night, to which he nervously agrees. That night, as she attempts to seduce him, they end up making out passionately on the floor, until Gregory resists and pulls away. He expresses disappointment in her for breaking their agreement, accusing her of "female manipulation". Devastated, Rose locks herself in the bathroom and breaks down in tears. Later, while Gregory is asleep, Rose sneaks out and goes to her mother's.
During Rose's stay with Hannah, Rose blames her mother for making her feel unattractive as a child. In response, Hannah produces a photo of Rose as a toddler, describing how pretty she was and revealing that her father had never held a baby until she came along. This greatly changes Rose's view of herself. Deciding to undergo a makeover, Rose changes her diet, exercises, has her hair restyled, and starts wearing form-fitting clothing and more flattering makeup. Meanwhile, missing Rose, Gregory cuts his European book tour short and returns home. However, when he voices his disapproval of Rose's new appearance, she declares she no longer wants to be married to him, and moves back in with her mother.
When Alex discovers Claire's affair with her ma