Misery is a 1990 American psychological thriller film directed by Rob Reiner, based on Stephen King's 1987 novel of the same name, starring James Caan, Kathy Bates, Lauren Bacall, Richard Farnsworth, and Frances Sternhagen. The plot centers around an author who is held captive by an obsessive fan who forces him to rewrite the finale to his novel series.
The film was released in the United States on November 30, 1990, by Columbia Pictures. It received highly positive reviews and was a box office success. Bates' performance drew widespread praise from critics and won her the Academy Award for Best Actress at the 63rd Academy Awards, making Misery the only film based on a Stephen King novel to win an Oscar. King himself has stated that Misery is one of his top ten favorite film adaptations.


== Plot ==
Famed novelist Paul Sheldon is the author of a successful series of Victorian romance novels featuring a character named Misery Chastain. Wanting to focus on more serious stories, he writes a manuscript that he hopes will launch his post-Misery career. While traveling from Silver Creek, Colorado, to his home in New York City, Paul is caught in a blizzard and crashes his car. A nurse named Annie Wilkes finds him and brings him to her remote home.
Paul regains consciousness and finds himself bedridden with broken legs and a dislocated shoulder. Annie says she is his "number one fan" and offers to care for him until the telephone lines are re-connected and local roads re-open following the blizzard. Annie's somewhat disturbing behavior comes to a hilt when she reads the latest Misery novel and discovers that Misery dies at the end. She flies into a rage, revealing that she had never informed anyone she'd rescued Paul, effectively holding him prisoner.
Annie forces him to burn the only copy of his new manuscript, provides a typewriter, and orders him to write a new novel in which he brings Misery back to life. Paul uses a bobby pin to unlock his door and leave his room. He begins stockpiling his painkillers and tries drugging Annie but his plan is foiled. He finds a scrapbook of newspaper clippings about her past and learns that she was tried for the deaths of several infants in the hospital where she worked; the trial collapsed due to lack of evidence. She had quoted lines from his Misery novels during the trial. Annie discovers that Paul has been sneaking out of his room and breaks his ankles with a sledgehammer.
The local sheriff, Buster, is investigating Paul's disappearance. Clues lead him to pay Annie a visit, but she murders him with a shotgun when he finds Paul drugged in the basement; she then attempts to kill Paul in a murder-suicide, but he convinces her to let him live long enough to finish the novel. When she goes to grab his wheelchair, he hides a can of lighter fluid inside his pants.
When the manuscript is done, Paul uses the lighter fluid to set it on fire so Annie can never read it, stating that he learned it from her. They engage in a violent struggle, with Paul suffering a gunshot wound. The struggle ends when he bashes Annie in the face with a metal doorstop shaped like her pig Misery, finally killing her.
Eighteen months later, Paul, now walking with a cane, meets his agent in a restaurant in New York City. The two discuss his first post-Misery novel. Paul says he wrote it as a way to deal with the horrors of his captivity. His agent asks if he would consider a nonfiction book about his ordeal, but Paul—who suffers psychological trauma from the experience—declines. A waitress approaches him and he momentarily hallucinates that she is Annie. The waitress then says that she is his number one fan, causing Paul to meekly reply, "That's very sweet of you."


== Cast ==
James Caan as Paul Sheldon
Kathy Bates as Annie Wilkes
Richard Farnsworth as Sheriff Buster
Frances Sternhagen as Deputy Virginia
Lauren Bacall as Marcia Sindell
Graham Jarvis as Libby
Jerry Potter as Pete
J. T. Walsh makes an uncredited cameo appearanc