Miss Julie is a 2014 period drama film written and directed by Liv Ullmann, based on the 1888 play of the same name by August Strindberg and starring Jessica Chastain, Colin Farrell and Samantha Morton. Set in Ireland in this adaptation, it had its world premiere in the Special Presentations section of the 2014 Toronto International Film Festival. It was a co-production of Norway, United Kingdom, Ireland, and France.
The film is set in 1890, in County Fermanagh (in what is now Northern Ireland) during the course of a single Midsummer Night. Miss Julie, the daughter of an Anglo-Irish landlord, attempts to seduce her father's peasant valet, John. The affair – overshadowed by power and class – quickly goes to some dark places.


== Plot ==
The movie starts with a young Miss Julie aimlessly wandering in the empty confines of her family's manor house. We hear her calling to her absent mother and walking by a babbling brook where she sees one of her dolls stuck in a tree. She lets out a snicker at the sight of the abandoned doll, and leaves the brook.
We jump to Midsummer Night 1890, where the same manor is deserted, save for three individuals; Kathleen the cook (Samantha Morton), John the valet (Colin Farrell) and Miss Julie (Jessica Chastain), the Baron's daughter. Kathleen and John immediately gossip about the lady of the house, specifically how she forced John to dance with her. Kathleen and John are engaged and John doesn't fail to take pleasure in Kathleen's jealous reaction.
And then, Miss Julie enters. Kathleen takes her leave to look after Miss Julie's suffering dog, while the young aristocrat, who appears to be in a mischievous sort of mood, traps John. The night grows stranger still, as servant and lady exchange impassioned monologues composed of lustful innuendoes and agonizing tension.
John confesses that he's been in love with her since he first laid eyes on her as a child, but the next moment sees him quick to remind her of their vastly different positions in the class system. Miss Julie is just as capricious, ordering John around like a slave, and then transforming into a damsel in distress. The back-and-forth continues, until lust overpowers them both and they end up in John's bedroom. Kathleen listens to their coupling through John's bedroom door before returning to her own bedroom and weeping inconsolably.
Back with Miss Julie, John reveals that he has never been in love with her. When they were children, John reveals that he had the same dirty thoughts about her as every other peasant boy on the estate. To Miss Julie's shock, John then unleashes an escalating barrage of verbal and emotional abuse. He calls her a whore and taunts her with the possibility that he may have gotten her pregnant.  As a shattered Miss Julie begins showing signs of psychosis, John orders her to break into her father's desk and steal all of  his money. He promises her that they will use the money to elope and start a hotel in Switzerland.
John goes to Kathleen and makes sexual advances to her as well; she rebuffs him angrily. She begins dressing John in his Sunday clothes, announcing that they are going to church together, where John will ask God for forgiveness.  John pretends to agree.  Kathleen expresses disgust that John has so little respect for his employers as to sleep with Miss Julie, and that Miss Julie lowered herself to sleep with him in turn.  She tells him that they will be leaving the house and seeking employment elsewhere.
Returning with the money and the cage which contains her beloved pet bird, Miss Julie watches in horror as John sadistically beheads her bird with a meat cleaver. Having a second breakdown, Miss Julie screams at John, telling him that she hates him and that there is blood between them now.
As Miss Julie picks up the stolen money from the floor, Kathleen arrives in her Sunday clothes. After listening to Miss Julie's monologue about eloping with John and the hotel in Switzerland, Kathleen gently explains to