Mixed Nuts is a 1994 Christmas dark comedy film directed by Nora Ephron, based on the 1982 French comedy film Le Père Noël est une ordure (Santa Claus is a Stinker). Co-written by Ephron and her sister Delia, the film features an ensemble cast which includes Steve Martin, Madeline Kahn, Rita Wilson, Anthony LaPaglia, Garry Shandling, Rob Reiner, Juliette Lewis, Adam Sandler, and Liev Schreiber in his film debut.
The film was released theatrically on December 21, 1994, and was both a critical and commercial failure.


== Plot ==
In Venice, Los Angeles on Christmas Eve, an ex-con named Felix is being chased down the road by his angry, pregnant girlfriend, Gracie. He accidentally runs into and damages a Christmas tree carried by two rollerbladers. An argument breaks out among them. A stranger named Philip tries to calm them down. They disperse, and Philip picks up the damaged tree and takes it to his office.
Philip runs a suicide-prevention hotline called "Lifesavers,” working there with a judgmental widow named Mrs. Munchnik and an overly sensitive woman named Catherine. Catherine obviously has a crush on Philip, but he seems oblivious. Philip receives an eviction notice from the landlord, Stanley, who is planning to convert the building to condominiums. Philip keeps the eviction notice a secret from his coworkers, and tries to get his loan officer fiancée, Susan, to grant him a small loan to stay in business. Susan refuses to grant the loan and breaks up with Philip, saying she has been cheating on him with a psychiatrist.
The hotline is not too busy on Christmas eve, but they do get a call from a woman who is afraid of the "Seaside Strangler" (a serial killer who has recently targeted women in the neighborhood), and a call from Chris, a depressed trans woman who wants to visit the office in person so as to get away from her judgmental family. Mrs. Munchnik's shift ends, but she gets trapped in the elevator as she leaves. She eventually manages to get Philip's attention and he manages to pull her out.
Gracie arrives at the office to see her friend Catherine; Felix, chasing Gracie, also shows up. Gracie hits Felix in the head with a fruitcake, giving him a concussion. Philip and Catherine take Felix to a veterinarian friend to get treated for free. At the vet, Felix accidentally overdoses on dog tranquilizers. He is taken to a hospital.
Chris arrives at the office; Gracie opens the door for her so quickly that she accidentally strikes Mrs. Munchnik and knocks her unconscious. Gracie asks Chris to look after Mrs. Munchnik, then leaves. Philip returns to the office; Chris strikes up a conversation with him and convinces him to dance. Mrs. Munchnik awakens, witnesses their dancing, and threatens to sue Philip for withholding information of the eviction and for inappropriate office behavior. She leaves.
Gracie gives Catherine a makeover; then they return to the office with Chinese food. Downstairs neighbor Louie, who has a crush on Catherine, joins them. Meanwhile, Philip throws the fruitcake out of the office window and accidentally smashes the windshield of Mrs. Munchnik's car, just as she is about to drive away. Fellow neighbor Mr. Lobel approaches her with his three dogs and tries to cheer her up. Mrs. Munchnik suddenly kisses him; they run off to the beach and have sex.
An hour later, Felix (having regained consciousness and escaped from the hospital) arrives at the office brandishing a gun. Chris attempts to disarm him and gets shot in the foot. Gracie takes the gun and shoots wildly around the office to empty it of ammunition. Two shots go through the front door—and kill the landlord, Stanley, who had just showed up to try to fix the elevator. The sight of the dead man puts Catherine in shock. Philip prepares a bath to calm her down and realizes that he is attracted to her. Catherine and Philip have sex in the bathroom. Meanwhile, Louie and Chris start flirting with each other; Louie makes up a song for Chris on his ukulele.
