Monkey Shines (also known as Monkey Shines: An Experiment in Fear) is a 1988 American science fiction psychological horror film written and directed by George A. Romero and starring Jason Beghe, Kate McNeil, John Pankow, and Joyce Van Patten. Its plot follows a young athlete who becomes a paralyzed quadriplegic, and develops a bond with an intelligent service monkey named "Ella" who becomes homicidal after she is injected with an experimental serum of human brain tissue. It is based on the 1983 British novel of the same title by Michael Stewart.
Producers Peter Grunwald and Charles Evans of Orion Pictures acquired the rights to Stewart's novel in 1985, and began production two years later, with Romero assigned to direct. The film marked Romero's first major studio feature, and was his second-most expensive film at that time, with a budget of $7 million. The setting was changed from Oxford, England, where the novel was set, to Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, a city in which Romero had long resided and often set his films. Principal photography of Monkey Shines took place in Pittsburgh in the late summer and early fall of 1987. It had a protracted post-production and editing process, as Romero shot more film than he had on any of his previous projects, particularly due to the use of live monkeys.
Monkey Shines was released theatrically by Orion Pictures in July 1988, receiving mixed reviews and a lackluster box-office reception, grossing $5.3 million against its $7 million budget. In the intervening years, the film has been noted by critics as an offbeat entry in Romero's filmography, and has earned status as a minor cult film.


== Plot ==
Law student and athlete Allan Mann is struck by a truck and rendered quadriplegic following surgery. As his domineering mother and uncaring nurse try helping him, Allan, now in an SNP-equipped wheelchair, struggles to adjust. His friend, Geoffrey Fisher, suggests he get a Capuchin monkey as a service animal to lift his spirits and help around the house. Geoffrey has an ulterior motive: he is a research scientist under pressure to produce results. Geoffrey has dosed a monkey in his lab with a serum to boost its intelligence, and believes the serum's effects will be amplified if the monkey is around humans.
Geoffrey enlists Melanie Parker, a specialist in training helper monkeys. Geoffrey provides the Capuchin he has been experimenting on, claiming it is normal. Allan names the monkey Ella, and he and Melanie work closely training her. Initially, Ella is a huge help to Allan. Allan grows very close to Melanie.  
Allan grows short-tempered and resentful. Ella, too, becomes aggressive. Allan dreams of running through the grass at night, and believes he has a telepathic link with Ella, whom he suspects can escape the house. Geoffrey finds evidence confirming this but, pleased with Ella's intelligence, does not tell Allan and Melanie. After the pet bird of Allan's lazy and uncaring nurse pesters him, Allan wishes it was gone - that night, Ella kills the bird and leaves it in the nurse's slipper; causing the nurse to quit in a rage.
Allan gets a second opinion about his paralysis and discovers he may have been misdiagnosed; another surgery may enable him to walk again. Before attempting the risky surgery, the doctor needs Allan to demonstrate some ability to willingly move an appendage. Rather than feeling happy at this news, Allan is furious with his original surgeon who is incompetent and egotistical as well as now dating Allan's former girlfriend. He fantasizes about burning the man's cabin down, and that night, Ella kills the surgeon and his girlfriend by burning down the cabin with a pack of stolen matches.
After seeing the fire in a vision and having it confirmed by his mother, the horrified Allan believes that Ella is carrying out his dark impulses. He also realizes that when he is around Ella, he becomes easily enraged. Allan demands that Geoffrey take Ella away. With Ella gone, Allan becomes more