Monty Python's Life of Brian (also known as Life of Brian) is a 1979 British comedy film starring and written by the comedy group Monty Python (Graham Chapman, John Cleese, Terry Gilliam, Eric Idle, Terry Jones and Michael Palin). It was directed by Jones. The film tells the story of Brian Cohen (played by Chapman), a young Jewish-Roman man who is born on the same day as—and next door to—Jesus, and is subsequently mistaken for the Messiah.
Following the withdrawal of funding by EMI Films just days before production was scheduled to begin, musician George Harrison and his business partner Denis O'Brien arranged financing for Life of Brian through the formation of their HandMade Films company.
The film's themes of religious satire were controversial at the time of its release, drawing accusations of blasphemy and protests from some religious groups. Thirty-nine local authorities in the United Kingdom imposed either an outright ban or an X (18 years) certificate. Some countries, including Ireland and Norway, banned its showing, and in a few of these, such as Italy, bans lasted over a decade. The filmmakers used the notoriety to promote the film, with posters in Sweden reading, "So funny it was banned in Norway!"
The film was a box office success, the fourth highest-grossing film in the United Kingdom in 1979, and highest-grossing of any British film in the United States that year. It has remained popular and has been named as the greatest comedy film of all time by several magazines and television networks, and it later received a 96% rating on Rotten Tomatoes with the consensus reading, "One of the more cutting-edge films of the 1970s, this religious farce from the classic comedy troupe is as poignant as it is funny and satirical." In a 2006 Channel 4 poll, Life of Brian was ranked first on their list of the 50 Greatest Comedy Films.


== Plot ==
Brian Cohen is born in a stable next door to the one in which Jesus is born, which initially confuses the three wise men who come to praise the future King of the Jews. Brian later grows up into an idealistic young man who resents the continuing Roman occupation of Judea. While listening to Jesus's Sermon on the Mount, Brian becomes infatuated with an attractive young rebel named Judith. His desire for her and hatred of the Romans, further exacerbated by his mother revealing that Brian himself is half-Roman, inspire him to join the "People's Front of Judea" (PFJ), one of many fractious and bickering independence movements that spend more time fighting each other than they do the Romans.
The PFJ task Brian to paint slogans overnight on Roman governor Pilate's palace, but a Roman officer catches him in the act. The officer shows more concern with Brian's appalling Latin grammar and, after correcting the slogan to "Romani ite domum", orders him to write it one hundred times. Brian finishes after sunrise and is chased away by the guards, and rescued by Judith. He then participates in an abortive attempt by the PFJ to kidnap Pilate's wife, but is captured by the palace guards.
The guards bring Brian before Pilate, but his questioning is cut short when the guards began laughing at the names of Pilate's friend Biggus Dickus and his wife Incontinentia Buttocks. Escaping, Brian is scooped up by a passing extraterrestrial spaceship that crashes back to earth. Brian tries to blend in among prophets who are preaching in a busy plaza, repeating fragments of Jesus' sermons. He stops his sermon mid-sentence when some Roman soldiers depart, leaving his small but intrigued audience demanding to know more. Brian grows frantic when people chase him to the mountains, and there they declare him to be the Messiah. After spending the night with Judith, a naked Brian discovers an enormous crowd assembled outside his mother's house. Her attempts at dispersing the crowd are rebuffed, so she consents to Brian addressing them. He urges them to think for themselves, but they parrot his words as doctrine.
The PFJ se