The Moonraker is a 1957 British swashbuckler film directed by David MacDonald and starring George Baker, Sylvia Syms, Marius Goring, Gary Raymond, Peter Arne, John Le Mesurier and Patrick Troughton. It was based on the 1952 play of the same title by Arthur Watkyn. It was released in 1958.
The film depicts a fictionalised account of the escape of Charles II, arranged by the Earl of Dawlish, who leads a double life as a roundhead-baiting highwayman called The Moonraker.


== Synopsis ==
After the Battle of Worcester at the end of the Second English Civil War, the main aim of General Oliver Cromwell is to capture Charles Stuart, son of the executed Charles I. However, the dashing Royalist hero nicknamed The Moonraker prepares to smuggle him to safety into France, under the noses of Cromwell's soldiers. According to the story, the hero is named after the smuggler term, moonrakers, who were reputed to hide contraband in the village pond and to rake it out by moonlight.


== Cast ==
George Baker as the Moonraker, otherwise Anthony, Earl of Dawlish
Sylvia Syms as Anne Wyndham
Marius Goring as Colonel Beaumont
Peter Arne as Edmund Tyler
Clive Morton as Lord Harcourt
Gary Raymond as Charles Stuart
Richard Leech as Henry Strangeways
Iris Russell as Judith Strangeways
Michael Anderson Jr. as Martin Strangeways
Paul Whitsun-Jones as Parfitt
John Le Mesurier as Oliver Cromwell
Patrick Troughton as Captain Wilcox
Julian Somers as Captain Foster
Sylvia Bidmead as Meg
Patrick Waddington as Lord Dorset
Fanny Rowe as Lady Dorset
Jennifer Browne as Henrietta Dorset
Richard Warner as Trooper
George Woodbridge as Captain Lowry
Victor Brooks as blacksmith


== Production ==
The film was based on the 1952 play by Arthur Watkyn.
In February 1952 Robert Clark of Associated British proposed that his company purchase the film rights as a vehicle for Audrey Hepburn, whom they had under contract, and either David Niven or Cornel Wilde. Associated British had an arrangement with Warner Bros; Jack Warner liked the story and agreed to a co production starring Hepburn and Wilde.
The play had been very successful in the provinces, so Watkyn wanted £10,000 for the film rights; neither Clark nor Warner would pay this, so Watkyn refused to sell until the play opened in London. When it did, it was a box office disaster and lasted only four performances. Watkyn agreed to sell the rights. However the film was not made with Hepburn.
The film was eventually made several years later. It was one of the last films Clark green-lit while head of the company and he is credited as "director of production". According to one writer, "this was an unusual occurrence for Clark, and indicates his intense interest in the project. And indeed The Moonraker should be interpreted as Clark's 'last stand' on politics and film culture. Rather than display a preference for the attractive and swashbuckling Cavaliers (as is so often evident in British popular culture), Clark's film takes care to establish the moral superiority of the Roundheads. Its soldiery are on the whole presented as moral men convinced of the probity of their cause, and Cromwell (John Le Mesurier) is a dignified and balanced leader. Clark clearly favoured an interpretation of history which presented Puritanism as more sober and even-handed than its alternative."
The film was shot at Elstree Studios ,Boreham Wood with sets designed by the art director Robert Jones, with location filming in Dorset, Wiltshire and Hertfordshire. The castle was Leeds Castle in Kent.
Sylvia Syms and Peter Arne were under long-term contract to ABPC at the time.
George Baker said he "enjoyed making The Moonraker very much" adding:

I actually wrote quite a lot of it. A couple of the love scenes with Sylvia were entirely my work ... The film is always popular on television. David Macdonald, who directed it, was unfortunately a bit of a lush, and it was almost his last film. When we got the script he went through it with us, saying, "Here you don