John Francis Bongiovi Jr. (born March 2, 1962), known professionally as Jon Bon Jovi, is an American singer, songwriter, guitarist, and actor. He is best known as the founder and frontman of the rock band Bon Jovi, which was formed in 1983. He has released 15 studio albums with his band as well as two solo albums.
In the 1990s, Bon Jovi started an acting career, starring in the films Moonlight and Valentino, The Leading Man, Little City, Homegrown, Pay It Forward, U-571 and Cry Wolf and appearing on television in shows such as Sex and the City, 30 Rock, Ally McBeal, and The West Wing.
Bon Jovi was inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame in 2009. In 2012, he ranked number 50 on the list of Billboard magazine's "Power 100", a ranking of "The Most Powerful and Influential People in the Music Business".
Bon Jovi is a founder and former majority owner of the Arena Football League team, the Philadelphia Soul.


== Early life ==
John Francis Bongiovi Jr. was born in Perth Amboy, New Jersey. His father John Francis Bongiovi Sr. was a barber and a former Marine. His mother Carol (Sharkey), also a former Marine, was a florist and Playboy Bunny. He has two brothers, Anthony and Matthew. His father was of Italian and Slovak ancestry; the name Bongiovi comes from Sciacca, Sicily. His mother is of German and Russian descent. While he was previously rumored to be a relative of singer Frank Sinatra, in a 2016 interview, he stated that this was false. 
Bon Jovi was raised Catholic. He attended St. Joseph High School in Metuchen, New Jersey, during his freshman and sophomore years. He later transferred to Sayreville War Memorial High School in Parlin, New Jersey.


== Musical career ==


=== Beginnings ===
Bon Jovi began playing music in 1974, when he formed his first band Raze and took part in a talent contest at his school. At 16, he formed a band called Atlantic City Expressway and was joined by David Bryan, who would later become a member of the Bon Jovi band. Still in his teens, Bon Jovi played in the band John Bongiovi and the Wild Ones, performing in clubs such as the Fast Lane and opening for local acts. By 1980, he had formed his first original band, the Rest; the band opened for New Jersey acts such as Southside Johnny and the Asbury Jukes.
At the time, Bon Jovi ran errands between gigs at the Power Station recording studio owned by his cousin Tony Bongiovi. One day, he was sweeping the floor as Disco producer Meco was in the studio recording Christmas in the Stars: The Star Wars Christmas Album. Meco suggested that Bon Jovi sing "R2-D2 We Wish You a Merry Christmas", which became his first professional recording (credited as John Bongiovi).


=== Bon Jovi ===

In March 1983, Bon Jovi called bassist Alec John Such and Such called experienced drummer Tico Torres and guitarist Richie Sambora. Bon Jovi, Sambora, Such, Bryan, and Torres became the founding members of the band Bon Jovi. In 1984 and 1985, Bon Jovi released its first two albums. The band's debut single, "Runaway", managed to crack the Top 40.
In 1986, the band achieved widespread success and global recognition with its third album, Slippery When Wet, which had sold 28 million copies worldwide as of 2011. Slippery When Wet included three Top 10 singles, two of which--"You Give Love a Bad Name" and "Livin' on a Prayer"--reached number one.
As of 2019, Bon Jovi has released 15 studio albums, five compilations and three live albums. The band has sold more than 130 million records worldwide, making it one of the bestselling American rock bands. Bon Jovi has performed more than 2,700 concerts in over 50 countries for more than 34 million fans. Bon Jovi was inducted into the UK Music Hall of Fame in 2006, and into the U.S. Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2018.


=== Solo career ===

In 1990, Jon Bon Jovi recorded a soundtrack to the movie Young Guns II. The soundtrack is commonly known as Blaze of Glory. Having been originally approached by his friend Emilio Estevez to lend "Wante