Mr. Wrong is a 1996 American romantic black comedy film starring Ellen DeGeneres and Bill Pullman and produced by Touchstone Pictures and Mandeville Films. Released on February 16, 1996, by Buena Vista Pictures Distribution, the film grossed $12.8 million. It was a critical failure and box office bomb. DeGeneres used to mention it occasionally in her talk show, The Ellen DeGeneres Show, poking fun at the disastrous reception of her major film debut. As of 2023, it remains her first and only film as lead actor in a live action film.


== Plot summary ==
The film begins with Martha Alston in a wedding gown incarcerated in a Mexican prison. The investigators call her Mrs. Crawford and listen to her explain why she committed murder on her wedding day.
Some months earlier, Martha attends her younger sister's wedding. Afterwards, Martha is pestered by her overbearing parents about when she will get married herself being 31 years old with her biological clock ticking. Martha works as an associate producer for a local TV talk show in San Diego. She rejects an offer of going out on a date with a younger co-worker, named Walter. Disappointed by her dull Valentine's Day blind date, she goes home to sulk in front of the TV, where, inundated by romantic imagery, she is prompted to get out of the house.
Martha goes to a bar where she drops her quarter in front of the jukebox. She bends down to get it when a man shows up and selects the same song she would have chosen. He is Whitman Crawford, and they instantly hit it off. They go back to his house and have sex. He says he's a poet and an investor, and has money. He reads her one of his poems.
Whitman appears charming and charismatic in which he and Martha begin dating. Martha introduces Whitman to her family and he impresses all of them. But by the time she meets his strange and eccentric mother, Martha has become convinced he is not "Mr. Right" at all. After Martha tells Whitman that it is OK to "be himself" around her, he suddenly breaks character and shoplifts a six-pack of beer from a local store and enjoys crushing the empty beer cans on his forehead. It is here that Whitman is revealed to be a crafty, devious, narcissistic sociopath who hides behind a charming nice-guy persona that fools literally everyone he comes into contact with. To make matters worse, Whitman's ex-girlfriend, Inga (who is nearly as crazy and deranged as Whitman), and her accomplice, Bob, begin harassing Martha who decides to break up with Whitman. Inga refuses to believe that Martha has dumped Whitman. Whitman also refuses to believe he has been dumped and he begins stalking Martha and trying to woo her back in increasingly ridiculous ways. Martha soon becomes frustrated and desperate after the manipulative Whitman tells her whole smitten and oblivious family that they are engaged to be married. He even buys off the private investigator whom Martha hires to run a background check on him. All of Martha's attempts to expose Whitman as the dangerous sociopath that he is to her friends and family is met with skepticism or disbelief from everyone due to Whitman's skill at lying and manipulation. Whitman goes as far as to make Martha lose her job, and then hits her with his pickup truck, drugs her and abducts her, taking her to Mexico to marry her there by hiring two young Mexican children to hold her captive as they travel on the road to their destination.
Once in Mexico, Martha attempts to escape and manages to place a phone call to San Diego to her former office to the only person that has not fallen under Whitman's influence: her co-worker Walter whom she manages to hurriedly explain that Whitman has abducted her and to travel to Mexico and rescue her. Whitman then catches up to her and disconnects the call. Inga and Bob appear and attempt to kill Martha, but Whitman comes to Martha's rescue and manages to drive them away at gunpoint.
At the church where Whitman is forcing Martha to get married in front of her delu