My Blue Heaven is a 1990 American crime comedy film directed by Herbert Ross, written by Nora Ephron, and starring Steve Martin, Rick Moranis, and Joan Cusack. This is the third film in which Martin and Moranis starred together. It has been noted for its relationship to Goodfellas, which was released one month later. Both films are based on the life of Henry Hill, although the character is renamed "Vincent 'Vinnie' Antonelli" in My Blue Heaven. Goodfellas was based on the book Wiseguy by Nicholas Pileggi, while the screenplay for My Blue Heaven was written by Pileggi's wife Nora Ephron, and much of the research for both works was done in the same sessions with Hill.


== Plot ==
Vinnie Antonelli is a former mobster recently inducted into the Witness Protection Program with his wife Linda in the suburbs near San Diego. The two are under the watchful eye of federal agent Barney Coopersmith.
As he is trying to adjust to suburban life, Vinnie easily slips into his usual dishonest ways. In the supermarket, after finding a price gun, he marks down high-end items. Inadvertently stealing a car, Vinnie gets taken into the police station. Assistant DA Hannah Stubbs questions him, and he fabricates a series of elaborate lies to explain himself.
Barney has to swoop in and bail out Vinnie. Flashing his credentials, he insists Hannah cannot arraign him as she wants to due to Vinnie or "Tod's" near-future testimony in mob trials. As Barney is leaving with "Tod," and she is following them out protesting, he calls her a narrow-minded fanatic.
At the shopping center on Thanksgiving, Barney's workmate convinces him to stake out someone who is seeking stolen credit cards, but Barney sees it is "Tod" and sends him home. Meanwhile, "Tod" follows Mrs. Stubbs into a pet store and comes across another ex-mobster.
Vinnie and Barney soon find common ground when they find out both of their wives left them. Linda heads back to New York City because she misses it; Margaret leaves Barney because he is no fun and too methodological.
Introduced to a group of other ex-mobsters, Vinnie finds out the government stipend will be paid only until he testifies. Together, they start hijacking delivery trucks. Alerted to this, Hannah brings "Tod" in for questioning after he is stopped for speeding and contraband is found in his car. While he is spinning his usual tall tale, Barney springs him again as the police did not have a warrant.
Flying to New York City to testify, Vinnie gives Barney the slip, first at the airport, then at the hotel. They end up at a club, where Barney learns to merengue in the tailored suit he is talked into getting. As Vinnie has not been laying low, two mobsters try to take him out, but Barney shoots a chandelier onto them. Both men feel indebted to each other.
Back in San Diego, "Tod" gets Hannah and her sons to go to a baseball game. Inviting Barney as well, he has them sit together. They all enjoy themselves. "Tod" is told by her kids that their baseball field is not so good as it has drainage problems, whereas he suggests they do a fundraiser to pay for it. Barney invites Hannah to a law enforcement cocktail party.
Vinnie meets his kind of woman in the supermarket and they elope in Reno. At the party, Barney shows Hannah the merengue, then they compare notes on how their spouses left them. Taking her home, as the kids are out, he spends the night. The next morning her ex-husband lets himself in, and Barney throws him out.
Although he still has three weeks before his assignment with Vince is completed, Barney and his colleague are put undercover as Canadians, supposedly looking to buy stolen goods from a hijacking ring. As the shipment ends up being a truckload of watercooler bottles, Vinnie disperses them through town, marking them for donations for the little league. 
Hannah has Vinnie booked and fingerprinted, but goes along with him to the motel where the fences are waiting. Breaking down their door with officers, they find Barney's FB