"Livin' la Vida Loca" (transl. "Livin' the Crazy Life") is a song recorded by Puerto Rican singer Ricky Martin for his fifth studio album and English-language debut, Ricky Martin (1999). The song was written by Draco Rosa and Desmond Child, while the production was handled by the latter. It was released to radio stations by Columbia Records as the lead single from the album on March 27, 1999. A Latin pop and dance song with elements of salsa, surf, and ska, it is about an irresistible, particularly sinister, wild woman who lives on the edge, seducing others into her crazy world. The song received acclaim from music critics, who complimented its lyrics and danceable rhythm. It was ranked as the best 1990s pop song by Elle, and was listed among the Best Latin Songs of All Time by Billboard.
"Livin' la Vida Loca" was also commercially successful, reaching number one in more than 20 countries. It is considered to be Martin's biggest hit and one of the best-selling singles of all time. In the United States, it topped the Billboard Hot 100 chart for five consecutive weeks, becoming Martin's first number-one single on the chart. Additionally, it broke several records on Billboard charts. It also spent eight consecutive weeks atop the Canada Top Singles chart and topped the country's year-end chart. In the United Kingdom, it debuted at number one and stayed there for three weeks, making Martin the first Puerto Rican artist in history to hit number one. It has received several certifications, including double platinum in the UK. The track was nominated for Record of the Year, Song of the Year, Best Male Pop Vocal Performance, and Best Instrumental Arrangement Accompanying Vocalist(s) at the 42nd Annual Grammy Awards.
The accompanying music video was directed by American director Wayne Isham and filmed in Los Angeles, California. It received a number of awards and nominations. At the 1999 MTV Video Music Awards, it won a total of five awards and was nominated for several other categories, including Video of the Year, making Martin the first Latin artist in history to receive a nomination in this category. A Spanish-language version of "Livin' la Vida Loca" was recorded under the same title and reached the summit of the Billboard Hot Latin Songs chart in the United States. To promote the original version of the song, Martin performed it on many television programs and award shows, including the MTV Video Music Awards and the World Music Awards in 1999. It is generally seen as the song that began the "Latin pop explosion" and paved the way for a large number of other Latin artists such as Jennifer Lopez, Shakira, Christina Aguilera, Marc Anthony, Santana, and Enrique Iglesias. Many bands and singers covered the song, and it has been featured in several films and video games.


== Background and release ==
In February 1999, Ricky Martin performed his smash hit "The Cup of Life" at the 41st Annual Grammy Awards, which was greeted with a massive standing ovation and met with acclaim from music critics. On October 22, 1998, CNN confirmed that Martin had started working on his first English language album, following the success of Vuelve. On March 6, 1999, almost two weeks after his Grammy performance, Billboard revealed the lead single's name as "Livin' la Vida Loca" in an article and mentioned that it is set for release later that month. Martin wrote about the recording of the song in his book:

 I would go so far as to say that during the process of recording the song we actually made magic. For "Livin' la Vida Loca" I had the good fortune of working once again with Draco Rosa and Desmond Child. Although I had made several records, I quickly realized that working with Desmond Child is working at an entirely new level.
In 2018, during an interview with Attitude, Martin told the magazine that the release of the song was not decided until he started working on "Be Careful (Cuidado Con Mi Corazón)" with Madonna: "This album was almost going to 