My Favorite Martian is a 1999 American science fiction comedy film directed by Donald Petrie. It is based on the 1960s television series of the same name which Ray Walston starred in. The film stars Christopher Lloyd, Jeff Daniels, Daryl Hannah, Elizabeth Hurley, Wallace Shawn, Wayne Knight and Walston. A Mickey Mouse Works short, Pluto Gets The Paper: Spaceship, was shown in theaters with it. 
My Favorite Martian was released in the United States on February 12, 1999. The film received negative reviews from critics and was a box-office failure, grossing $36.8 million against a $65 million budget.


== Plot ==
The film opens on Mars, showing the last moments of a Mars rover's mission. As the rover prepares to sample Martian rock, it sadly "kicks the bucket". The mission controllers congratulate themselves on a "successful" mission, while back on Mars the scene pans up from the dead rover to show a huge undiscovered Martian city. A spaceship is seen quickly rocketing from the city and accelerating into space.
News producer Tim O'Hara is fired for unwittingly "compromising" reporter Brace Channing, the daughter of his boss, Mr. Channing, during a live broadcast of the first Space Shuttle launch from Vandenberg Air Force Base. His assistant, Lizzie tries to comfort him and she apparently has a crush on him.
Later that night, while driving, Tim witnesses a small Martian spacecraft crash landing. Realizing his chance to deliver a story that will "rock the Earth," he brings Brace to show her the ship, but by the time he reaches the crash site, the ship has been shrunk to toy size. Nearby, its only occupant hides in the bushes. Tim takes the now-shrunken spaceship home with him and the Martian follows him to retrieve it. After a confrontation, Tim is knocked out and the Martian disguises himself with a "nerplex", a piece of alien gum that can transform anyone into another life form, to look like Tim and ends up kissing Lizzie when she visits.
When Tim confronts the Martian the next morning, he finds out that a small device called an "electron accelerator," which powers the control systems of the ship, is damaged beyond repair and the Martian needs Tim's help to find a replacement. The Martian takes the name "Uncle Martin" and explores the city with Tim, unaware that they are being watched by SETI, which discovered DNA left by Martin while hiding out at Tim's. While exploring Tim's neighborhood, Martin tells him about a friend of his named "Neenert", one of his planet's most gifted Martian scientists, who came to Earth in 1964, but never came back. Brace is captured by the SETI gang and is interrogated.
Tim secretly tapes Martin and his sentient suit, Zoot, with hidden cameras to back up his story and impress the television station staff in hopes of getting his job back, but he eventually decides not to reveal the tapes, as he has become fond of Martin. Meanwhile, Martin and Zoot discover a subsystem of the ship called the Interstellar Safety System, which is prepared to self-destruct.
Brace discovers the footage of Martin in his Martian form and she steals the tape. Lizzie shows up at Tim's house to discover Brace stealing the tape. Thinking that Tim cheated on her, Lizzie rejects him and storms out, only to be distracted by the now-full-sized spaceship and is pulled into the cockpit by Zoot. Martin and Tim go after the Martian evidence, shrinking the ship (along with Zoot and Lizzie) and racing down to the station, where Tim admits to Martin that he has been videotaping him, but says he likes Martin and apologizes. Accepting Tim's apology, Martin subdues Brace, disguising himself as her so he can take her place on the news and Martin's alien form is almost exposed during the broadcast, which is carefully watched by Elliott Coleye, head of SETI.
As footage from another news report is aired, Tim and Martin escape the station, pursued by SETI through the sewers in Tim's car, shrunken using Martin's device. They eventually end up in the