Sara Beth Bareilles ( bə-REL-iss; born December 7, 1979) is an American singer, songwriter, and actress. She has sold over three million albums and over 15 million singles in the United States. Bareilles has earned various accolades, including two Grammy Awards, as well as nominations for three Primetime Emmy Awards and three Tony Awards. In 2012, VH1 named her one of the Top 100 Greatest Women in Music.
Bareilles rose to prominence with the release of her second studio album, Little Voice (2007), which was her first recording for a major record label (Epic). The album included the hit single "Love Song", which reached number four on the Billboard Hot 100 and earned her a nomination for the Grammy Award for Song of the Year.
Bareilles made her Broadway debut when she composed music and wrote lyrics for the 2015 musical Waitress, for which she earned nominations for the Tony Award for Best Original Score and the Grammy Award for Best Musical Theater Album. She subsequently received Olivier Award nominations for its 2021 West End transfer production. She released the 2015 studio album What's Inside: Songs from Waitress, in which she performs many of the musical's songs as well as some that didn't make it into the show. She has gone on to be involved with Broadway productions, including the 2016 musical SpongeBob SquarePants and a revival of Stephen Sondheim's Into the Woods, both of which earned her Tony nominations.
Bareilles is also known for her work on television. In 2018, she received critical acclaim for her portrayal of Mary Magdalene in the NBC musical television special Jesus Christ Superstar Live in Concert, for which she was nominated for an Emmy. She currently stars as Dawn Solano in Peacock and Netflix's musical comedy Girls5eva (2021–present).


== Early life ==
Sara Beth Bareilles was born on December 7, 1979, in Eureka, California, United States. Her father, Paul Bareilles, is an insurance adjuster, while her mother, Bonnie Jean (née Capellas), is a funeral home worker. She has two elder sisters, Stacey and Jennifer, and a half-sister, Melody. Bareilles has Portuguese ancestry through one of her maternal great-grandmothers. She also has Italian, English, German and French ancestry; her last name is French. She speaks some Italian and lived in Bologna for a year during college. Her parents divorced when she was 12, and her mother later married Ron Halvorsen.
Bareilles was raised Catholic and attended parochial school until junior high, when she transferred to public school. She still attends Mass with her family when she visits her hometown. She participated in the high school choir, Limited Edition, and local community theater musical productions, including her high school's production of Little Shop of Horrors, in which she appeared as Audrey.
After graduating from Eureka High School in 1998, Bareilles studied communication studies at the University of California, Los Angeles, where she was a member of the co-ed a cappella group Awaken a Cappella; she can be heard on their album Dysfunktional Family, singing her original selection "Gravity" and "I Want You Back" by The Jackson 5. The group's rendition of "Gravity" was featured on the Best of College a Cappella 2004 compilation CD. Bareilles and Maroon 5 have been acquainted since their college days at UCLA, when the band was known as Kara's Flowers. She performed in the annual student concert UCLA Spring Sing, winning twice. She taught herself to play multiple instruments, including the piano.


== Career ==


=== 2002–2006: Career beginnings and Careful Confessions ===
After graduating from UCLA in 2002, Bareilles performed at local bars and clubs (such as the Hotel Café and Genghis Cohen in Los Angeles), building a following before performing in larger venues. She released two demos of mostly live tracks in 2003: The First One in April and The Summer Sessions in October.
In January 2004, Bareilles self-published her first studio album, Careful Confessions. In 