The Negotiator is a 1998 American action thriller film directed by F. Gary Gray. It stars Samuel L. Jackson and Kevin Spacey as Chicago police lieutenants who are expert hostage negotiators. The film was released in the United States on July 29, 1998, receiving generally positive reviews from critics and grossing $88 million worldwide. The film is considered by many to be one of Jackson’s most underrated films.


== Plot ==
Lieutenant Danny Roman, a top hostage negotiator for the Chicago Police Department's east precinct, is told by his partner, Nate Roenick, that according to an informant whom he refuses to name, members of their own unit are embezzling large amounts of money from the department's disability fund, of which Roman is a board member. Roenick tells Roman that his informant hasn't told Internal Affairs because he thinks they might be involved as well. Later, Roman goes to meet Roenick but finds him dead, shot in the head. A squad car arrives on the scene within seconds, with Roman considered a prime suspect.
Matters become worse for Roman when IAD inspector Terence Niebaum, whom Roenick's informant suspected of involvement in the embezzlement, is assigned to investigate the murder. After the gun that killed Roenick, which is found in the lake next to his car, is linked to a case Roman had worked on, Niebaum and other investigators search the Roman household and discover papers for an offshore bank account with a deposit equal to one of the amounts of money embezzled. Roman is forced to surrender his gun and badge, and his colleagues are skeptical of his protestations of innocence. With embezzlement and homicide charges pending, Roman storms into Niebaum's office to confront him. When the inspector refuses to cooperate, Roman takes Niebaum, his administrative assistant Maggie, Roman's commander and friend Grant Frost, and con man Rudy Timmons as hostages.
With the building evacuated and placed under siege by his own CPD unit and the FBI, Roman issues his conditions: He wants his badge back, the location of Roenick's informant and killer, a department funeral if he dies, and the presence of Lieutenant Chris Sabian, the city's other top negotiator. Roman believes he can trust Sabian because he talks for as long as possible, sees tactical action as a last resort, and, being from the CPD's west precinct, is eliminated as a suspect in the disability fund scheme. Sabian clashes with Roman's precinct, particularly commander Adam Beck, but is given temporary command of the unit after they hastily attempt a breach that backfires, resulting in SWAT officers Scott and Markus becoming hostages, with Scott apparently getting killed.
Roman trades Frost to Sabian in exchange for getting the building's electricity restored, which had been turned off after the hostage execution. With help from Rudy and Maggie, Roman accesses Niebaum's computer and discovers the scheme: Corrupt officers submitted false disability claims that were processed by an unknown insider on the disability fund's board. He also discovers recordings of wiretaps, including a conversation between Roenick and his widow that suggests he was going to meet his informant before he was killed. Sabian, using the information Roman gave him, claims to have located Roenick's informant in a bid to get Roman to release the hostages. Roman realizes Sabian is bluffing when Niebaum's files reveal that Roenick himself was the IAD informant.
When Roman threatens to expose Niebaum in his office's shattered window, leaving him vulnerable to sniper fire, Niebaum admits that Roenick gave him wiretaps, implicating three of their squadmates in the embezzlement scheme: Hellman, Allen, and Argento; when Niebaum confronted the guilty officers, he received a bribe from them to cover up their crimes; the guilty officers attempted to bribe Roenick, but he refused to take the money, resulting in his murder. Niebaum says he doesn't know who the ringleader is, but that he has safely hidden the 