Nekromantik (stylized as NEKRomantik) is a 1987 West German horror exploitation film co-written and directed by Jörg Buttgereit. It is known to be frequently controversial, banned in a number of countries, and has become a cult film over the years due to its transgressive subject matter (including necrophilia) and audacious imagery.


== Plot ==
Robert Schmadtke is a troubled young man who works for a company that specialises in cleaning up public spaces after traffic accidents and other fatal incidents; a job which allows Robert to indulge in and explore his necrophilia fetishes, which are shared by his wife Betty. Their apartment is decorated with centerfolds featuring models, pictures of famed killers, and jars containing human parts, which are preserved in formaldehyde.
One day, the street cleaning agency is called to deal with the body of a man found dead in a lake. Robert becomes fascinated upon seeing the man's heavily-decayed corpse, and secretly takes it home with him, whereupon he presents it as a gift for Betty. Excited, they both cut off part of a wooden chair leg, before sticking it onto the corpse's crotch and putting a condom over it, allowing Betty to use it as a makeshift phallus. Betty then commits necrophilia with the corpse. 
The next day, Robert is confronted at work by his co-workers, and ends up getting fired due to his habitual tardiness and the odour festering from the suit in his locker. He returns home and informs Betty of his termination, upon which she angrily chastises him before leaving and taking the corpse with her. Robert suffers an emotional breakdown and kills their pet cat, before bathing with its entrails.
Robert drinks some whiskey and takes some pills, before falling asleep and experiencing a dream of him being a partially decayed corpse, playing with a decayed severed head alongside a girl dressed in white. After waking up, it is nighttime, and Robert leaves his apartment to hire a gigolette. They go to a cemetery, where he hopes the environment will help satisfy his libido, but he fails to perform sexually. After the gigolette mocks him, he strangles her to death in a fit of rage and then has sex with her corpse. The next morning, Robert is startled by an old gravedigger who stumbles across them. Robert quickly grabs the gravedigger's shovel and decapitates him with it before fleeing back to his apartment, where he commits suicide by stabbing himself in the stomach, whilst simulatenously ejaculating. Some time later, an unseen figure in high heels is shown digging up Robert's grave.


== Cast ==
Bernd Daktari Lorenz as Robert Schmadtke
Beatrice Manowski as Betty
Harald Lundt as Bruno
Collosseo as Joe
Christiane Baumgarten as Woman in Dream
Harals Weis as Garden Victim
Volker Hauptvogel as Man with Gun


== Production ==


=== Development ===
Buttgereit had previously directed featurettes in Super 8 format, but this was his first feature-length film. Buttgereit and co-writer Franz Rodenkirchen conceived the basic concept of the film while discussing the relationship between love, sex, and death. The idea to connect an orgasm to the moment of death, somebody actually enjoying his own death, was part of their initial ideas.


=== Filming ===
The film was a no budget film, with inexpensive special effects. The film makes use of actual animal intestines and the eyeballs of pigs. The rabbit-related scene uses documentary-style footage of a professional rabbit breeder at work.


=== Music ===
The original musical score for the film was composed by Hermann Kopp, Bernd Daktari Lorenz and John Boy Walton.


== Analysis ==
According to Bartlomiej Paszylk, the film revealed its roots in amateur film techniques through the use of poor acting and inferior cinematography. What actually made it a "must-see" for horror fans were its taboo-breaking scenes and dwelling on filthy, disgusting subjects. According to Kris Vander Lugt, in terms of genre Nekromantik is a mix of elements from several genres: sp