The NeverEnding Story (German: Die unendliche Geschichte) is a 1984 fantasy film, co-written and directed by Wolfgang Petersen (in his first English-language film), based on the 1979 novel The Neverending Story by Michael Ende. It was produced by Bernd Eichinger and Dieter Giessler, and stars Noah Hathaway, Barret Oliver, Tami Stronach, Patricia Hayes, Sydney Bromley, Gerald McRaney and Moses Gunn, with Alan Oppenheimer providing the voices of Falkor, Gmork, and others. It follows a boy who finds a magical book that tells of a young warrior who is given the task of stopping the Nothing, a dark force, from engulfing the wonderland world of Fantasia.
At the time of its release, it was the most expensive film produced outside the United States or the Soviet Union. It is the first in The NeverEnding Story film series. It adapts only the first half of the book, so it does not convey the message of the title as portrayed in the novel. The second half of the book was then used as a rough basis for the second film, The NeverEnding Story II: The Next Chapter (1990). The third film, The NeverEnding Story III: Escape from Fantasia (1994), has an original plot not based on the book.


== Plot ==
Ten-year-old Bastian Bux is a shy outcast who lives with his recently widowed father. One morning, Bastian's father tells his son of his concern after hearing he drew unicorns in his math book and tells Bastian he needs to stop fantasizing and start facing reality. On his way to school, Bastian is chased by bullies but escapes by hiding in a bookstore, annoying the bookseller, Mr. Coreander. Bastian's interest in books leads him to ask about the one Coreander is reading, but the bookseller advises against reading it, saying that it is not a "safe" story like regular books. With his curiosity piqued, Bastian secretly takes the book, titled The Neverending Story, leaving a note promising to return it. Arriving at school late, Bastian hides in the building's attic to read.
The book describes the fantasy world of Fantasia slowly being devoured by a malevolent force called "The Nothing". The Childlike Empress, who rules Fantasia, has fallen ill, and the young warrior Atreyu is tasked to discover a cure, believing that once the Empress is well, the Nothing will no longer be a threat. Atreyu is given a medallion called the AURYN that can guide and protect him in the quest. As Atreyu sets out, the Nothing summons a vicious and highly intelligent wolf-like creature named Gmork and sends him to kill Atreyu.
Atreyu's quest directs him to the giant, turtle-like adviser Morla the Ancient One in the Swamps of Sadness, containing deadly mud that people will sink into if they let the sadness effects overpower them. Whiles making their way through the swamp, Atreyu's beloved horse Artax is overcome by the sadness and sinks into the mud to his death, leaving a heartbroken Atreyu to continue alone. Morla won't help Atreyu because of her allergies to young people and apathy, and says she doesn't have the answers he seeks; she instead directs Atreyu to the Southern Oracle, ten thousand miles distant before going back to eternal sleep. Gmork closes in as an exhausted Atreyu begins to get overcome by the sadness trying to escape the Swamps. Atreyu almost drowns in the mud, but is narrowly saved by the Luck Dragon Falkor. Falkor takes him to the home of two gnomes who live near the gates to the Southern Oracle. Atreyu crosses the first gate, but is perplexed when the second gate—a mirror that shows the viewer's true self—reveals a boy which Bastian is shocked to recognize as himself. Atreyu eventually meets the Southern Oracle, who tells him that the only way to save the Empress is to find a human child who lives beyond the boundaries of Fantasia to give her a new name. Bastian comments that he would name the Empress after his late mother. Atreyu and Falkor flee, as the Nothing consumes the Southern Oracle.
In flight, Atreyu is knocked from Falkor's back into the Sea of 