The Strangers is a 2008 American psychological horror film written and directed by Bryan Bertino. The film follows a couple (portrayed by Liv Tyler and Scott Speedman) whose stay at a vacation home is disrupted by three masked intruders (portrayed by Kip Weeks, Gemma Ward, and Laura Margolis) who infiltrate the home one night. It is the first installment in The Strangers film series. The screenplay was inspired by two real-life events: the multiple-homicide Manson family Tate murders and a series of break-ins that occurred in Bertino's neighborhood as a child. Some journalists noted similarities between the film and the Keddie cabin murders that occurred in Keddie, California, in 1981, though Bertino did not cite this as a reference.
Made on a budget of $9 million, the film was shot on location in rural South Carolina in the fall of 2006. Originally slated for a theatrical release in November 2007, it was postponed before a theatrical release on May 30, 2008. The film became a sleeper hit, grossing $82 million at the box office worldwide. It received mixed reviews from critics, with some praising its atmosphere and tension, and others criticizing its script and characters.
In the years since its release, it has become a cult film. A sequel, The Strangers: Prey at Night, was released in March 2018, followed by a standalone sequel trilogy of Strangers films, with the first, subtitled Chapter 1, being released in May 2024.


== Plot ==
James Hoyt and Kristen McKay arrive at James' isolated childhood summer home after attending a wedding. The couple is distraught after Kristen turned down James’ marriage proposal. James calls his friend Mike and asks to pick him up in the morning. The couple attempt to have sex, but are interrupted by a knock at the door. They answer to find a young woman, asking if Tamara is home. James dismisses her, and builds a fire for Kristen.
James goes to purchase cigarettes for Kristen. The woman from earlier returns, asking the same question. Kristen dismisses her again. A masked man is seen silently watching her from inside the house.
Kristen notices the smoke alarm she'd dropped on the floor earlier is now sitting on a chair and realizes someone is in the house. She finds her cellphone missing and is horrified when the front door is forced ajar. The young woman, now wearing a mask, peers into the house. She locks the door and retreats. 
James returns and reassures Kristen that nobody is in the house. They see the young masked woman, Dollface, watching their house from outside. He attempts to get his cellphone from their car but finds it ransacked. The couple attempts to escape in the car, but are abruptly stopped when the masked brunette woman rear-ends them in a pickup truck.
Mike arrives and James accidentally shoots him dead. He remembers an old radio transmitter in a barn on the property. He leaves and the Man in the Mask knocks him unconscious, and eventually does the same to Kristen inside the house. The couple awakens tied to chairs in the living room. Kristen demands an explanation for the intruders' actions, to which Dollface replies, "Because you were home."
The offenders unmask themselves before taking turns stabbing the couple. They leave and come across two young boys distributing Mormon religious tracts. The boy gives Dollface one, and right before the strangers drive away, Dollface says, "It will be easier next time." The two boys come upon the house, where they discover the bloodied bodies of Kristen and James. Kristen startles one of the boys by grabbing his hand and screaming, before they call the police.


== Cast ==
Liv Tyler as Kristen McKay
Scott Speedman as James Hoyt
Gemma Ward as Dollface
Kip Weeks as Man in the Mask
Laura Margolis as Pin-Up Girl
Glenn Howerton as Mike


== Themes ==
Film scholar Kevin Wetmore noted the film's portrayal of violence as a reflection of its contemporary culture, writing: "Death is a random act in post-9/11 horror—the result of being in the wrong p