Night of the Living Dead (also known as George A. Romero's Night of the Living Dead) is a 1990 American horror film directed by Tom Savini (in his feature directorial debut) and starring Tony Todd and Patricia Tallman. It is a remake of George A. Romero's 1968 film of the same title; Romero rewrote the original 1968 screenplay he had originally co-authored with John A. Russo.
Like the original, the film follows seven strangers as they meet and survive in a rural farmhouse, following the awakening of cannibalistic zombies. It is the only "official" remake of the 1968 film, with other "unofficial" remakes coming out after, as a result of the source material's lack of copyright ownership (resulting in being in the public domain).
Night of the Living Dead was released by Columbia Pictures in the United States on October 19, 1990. The film received negative reviews upon initial release and grossed $5.8 million against a $4.2 million budget.  Modern reviews have been more positive.


== Plot ==
One idyllic August afternoon, siblings Barbara and Johnny visit their mother's grave in a remote cemetery in rural Pennsylvania. An elderly man with blood on his forehead bumps into them there, garbles something and bolts in terror. While offering to help him, they are attacked by a zombie. Johnny is killed while Barbara flees the cemetery and discovers what appears to be an abandoned farm house. She seeks shelter there, only to find another pack of zombies. Shaken and disturbed she tries to fight them off. Shortly after, a man named Ben (who fled Evans City) arrives and helps Barbara dispatch the zombies. The two quickly form a bond and clear the house of the undead and begin barricading the doors and windows as night falls. 
They soon discover other survivors holed up in the cellar: a man named Harry Cooper; his wife Helen; their daughter Sarah, who was bitten by a zombie and has fallen seriously ill; and teenage lovers Tom Bitner and Judy Rose Larson. The group is divided over what their next course of action should be. Harry insists that everyone retreats to the cellar and hunker down to wait for the authorities. Ben disagrees believing that the cellar is a "death trap" and they would be better off fortifying the house and fending off the horde. Noticing the zombies' limited mobility, Barbara suggests that they leave the house on foot. The discussion quickly turns hostile as tensions flare between Ben and Harry. A scuffle ensues that leaves the Coopers in the basement to tend to Sarah, while the other survivors continue reinforcing the doors and windows upstairs. The loud construction attracts a mob of zombies to the farmhouse. It doesn't take long for the infected to hem in, leaving the group trapped with nowhere to go. 
The group devises a plan to escape using Ben's truck, which is out of fuel, by refueling at a locked gas pump nearby. They find a set of keys in Uncle Rege's corpse (the farm's owner) and proceed to drive up the hill toward the gas pump, but their plan begins to unravel when Ben falls from the bed of the truck and is left to defend himself. To their horror, the key to the gas pump is not among the set they brought with them. Realizing they are out of time, Tom shoots the lock off, causing gasoline to ignite a burning torch in the cargo bed. The truck and gas pump explode, killing both Tom and Judy.  
Ben has no choice but to make his way back, only to find things beginning to dissolve into chaos. Harry has wrestled Barbara's gun away from her and is now armed while the horde has burst their way in. The house is now completely overrun with the exits blocked off and the barricades torn down. Unbeknownst to the survivors upstairs, Sarah has succumbed to the bite on her arm and has transformed into a zombie; she attacks and bites her distraught mother. When Sarah makes her way upstairs, she triggers a shootout between her father, who is trying to protect her, and Ben and Barbara, who are trying to protect themselves. Both Be