The Nightmare Before Christmas (also known as Tim Burton's The Nightmare Before Christmas) is a 1993 American stop-motion animated musical fantasy film directed by Henry Selick in his feature directorial debut and produced and conceived by Tim Burton. It tells the story of Jack Skellington, the King of "Halloween Town", who stumbles upon "Christmas Town" and schemes to take over the holiday. Danny Elfman wrote the songs and score and provided the singing voice of Jack. The principal voice cast includes Chris Sarandon, Catherine O'Hara, William Hickey, Ken Page, Paul Reubens, Glenn Shadix, and Ed Ivory.
The Nightmare Before Christmas originated from a poem written by Burton in 1982 while he was working as an animator at Walt Disney Productions. With the critical success of Vincent that same year, Burton began to consider developing the film as either a short film or a half-hour television special, to no avail. Over the years, Burton's thoughts regularly returned to the project, and, in 1990, he made a development deal with Walt Disney Studios. Production started in July 1991 in San Francisco; Disney initially released the film through the Touchstone Pictures label  because the studio believed the film would be "too dark and scary for kids".
The Nightmare Before Christmas premiered at the New York Film Festival on October 9, 1993, and was given a limited release on October 13, before its wide theatrical release on October 29. The film was met with commercial and critical success upon release, earning praise for its animation, particularly the innovation of stop-motion as an art form, as well as its characters, songs, and score. While initially a modest box office hit, it has since garnered a large cult following and is widely regarded as one of the greatest animated films of all time. It was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Visual Effects, a first for an animated film, but lost to Jurassic Park. The film has been reissued by Walt Disney Pictures and was re-released annually in Disney Digital 3-D from 2006 until 2010.
In 2023, the film was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically or aesthetically significant."


== Plot ==
Halloween Town is a fantasy world populated by various monsters and beings associated with the holiday ("This is Halloween"). Jack Skellington, the well-respected "Pumpkin King," leads the town in organizing the annual Halloween celebrations. Unknown to the citizens, however, he has grown tired of the same annual routine this year and wants something new ("Jack's Lament"). Wandering in the woods the next morning, he discovers several trees containing doors, which lead to other holiday-themed worlds (Christmas, Easter, Thanksgiving, Independence Day, Valentine's Day and Saint Patrick's Day). Stumbling through the one leading to Christmas Town and awed by the unfamiliar holiday, Jack develops an obsession for it ("What's This").
Jack returns home to share his discovery with his friends and neighbors. They relate to Christmas Town's ruler, Santa Claus (whom Jack mistakenly calls "Sandy Claws"), but are unfamiliar with the concept of Christmas and conflate its customs with the Halloween traditions that they are used to ("Town Meeting Song"). Frustrated, Jack isolates himself in his house and studies Christmas further, intent upon finding a way to rationally explain it ("Jack's Obsession"). When days of study and experimentation accomplish nothing, however, Jack abandons his attempts to understand Christmas and decides to "improve" the holiday instead.
Jack announces that Halloween Town will take over Christmas this year and assigns Christmas-themed jobs, such as singing carols, making presents ("Making Christmas") and building a sleigh pulled by skeletal reindeer, to various residents. Sally, a feminine creation of local mad scientist Doctor Finkelstein, experiences a vision detailing that their efforts will end in di