This article lists characters seen in the film The Nightmare Before Christmas and the video games The Nightmare Before Christmas: The Pumpkin King and The Nightmare Before Christmas: Oogie's Revenge.


== Design ==
The filmmakers constructed 230 puppets to represent the characters in the film, with Jack Skellington having "around eight hundred heads", allowing the expression of every possible emotion. Sally's mouth movements "were animated through the replacement method. During the animation process, only Sally's face 'mask' was removed to preserve the order of her long red hair. Sally had ten types of faces, each made with a series of eleven expressions and synchronised mouth movements."


== Main ==


=== Jack Skellington ===

The film's protagonist, Jack Skellington is a skeleton who holds the title of The Pumpkin King. He is popular among the residents of Halloween Town for his charming personality and aim to please, as he is well-meaning despite a lack of inhibition. He is in charge of Halloween, but repeating the same routine for years has caused him to feel his inspiration for his own holiday waning. However, after stumbling into Christmas Town, he gains new ideas and inspiration. He also appears in The Nightmare Before Christmas: Oogie's Revenge.
He is voiced in all canon appearances by Chris Sarandon, and his singing voice in the film was provided by Danny Elfman. Since the film was originally released for adults, as it was thought to be "too dark and scary for kids", in non-English speaking countries, Disney Character Voices International only dubbed the film in a few languages in which adult and kids films are usually dubbed, while in other countries it was released with subtitles. Some versions dubbed only the spoken lines, leaving the songs in English.
Jack Skellington made a cameo in the film James and the Giant Peach as the "pirate captain". He also appears in the Robot Chicken episode "Anne Marie's Pride", where he is voiced by Victor Yerrid.


=== Sally ===

Sally is Jack Skellington's love interest, a kind, shy, and determined rag doll who tells him that Christmas and Halloween should not mix and is the only one to have doubts about his Christmas plan. Fiona Apple provides the vocals for "Sally's Song" on the 2006 special edition of The Nightmare Before Christmas: Original Motion Picture Soundtrack, while Amy Lee provides the vocals for "Sally's Song" on Nightmare Revisited. She also appears in Tim Burton's The Nightmare Before Christmas: Oogie's Revenge.
She has detachable limbs stuffed with fall leaves and often falls apart, requiring her to sew herself back together, which she carries a set of sewing needles and thread for. She was created by Doctor Finkelstein, Halloween Town's resident mad scientist, as a companion. Their relationship is rather tense, as Finkelstein insists on keeping her imprisoned under the pretext of protecting her from the outside world. However, Sally is restless and curious, and despite his attempts to keep her imprisoned, she often manages to escape by sedating him with deadly nightshade.
It is this restlessness and a desire for something better in her life that draws her to Jack Skellington. In the beginning of the film, she idolizes and admires him like many residents of Halloween Town. However, she discovers they are connected by the desire for something more in their lives, and her feelings for him intensify. The two refer to each other as "friends", though Jack seems unaware of Sally's true feelings for him. This is because she is too shy to admit them to him, but shows them through her kindness until the end of the film, where she finally confesses to him.
On the album to the film, it is mentioned that years later, Sandy Claws returned to Halloween Town and saw Jack had four or five skeleton children. While not confirmed, it is assumed that given the ending to the film, Jack and Sally got married and started a family.
Bryan Theiss declares that "Sally is one of those rare fa