The Night Porter (Italian: Il portiere di notte) is a 1974 Italian psychological war drama film co-written and directed by Liliana Cavani. It stars Dirk Bogarde and Charlotte Rampling, with Philippe Leroy, Gabriele Ferzetti and Isa Miranda in supporting roles. Set in Vienna in 1957, the film centers on the sadomasochistic relationship between a former Nazi concentration camp officer (Bogarde) and one of his inmates (Rampling).
The film's themes of sexual and sadomasochistic obsession, and its use of Holocaust imagery, have made the film controversial since its initial release, dividing critics over its artistic value. In July 2018, it was selected to be screened in the Venice Classics section of the 75th Venice International Film Festival.


== Plot ==
During World War II, Maximilian Theo Aldorfer, a Nazi SS officer who posed as a doctor to take sensational photographs in concentration camps, and Lucia, a teenage girl interned in a concentration camp due to her father's socialist political ties, had an ambiguous sadomasochistic relationship. Max tormented Lucia, but also acted as her protector.
In 1957, Lucia, now married to an American orchestra conductor, meets Max again by chance. He is now a night porter at a hotel in Vienna, and a reluctant member of a group of former SS comrades who have been carefully covering up their pasts by destroying documents and eliminating witnesses to their wartime activities. Max has an upcoming mock trial at the hands of the group for his war crimes. The group's leader, Hans Vogler, accuses Max of wanting to live "hidden away like a church mouse". Max wishes to remain hidden, but he voices support for the group's activities. Memories of the past punctuate Max and Lucia's present with urgent frequency, suggesting that Lucia survived through her relationship with Max—in one such remembered scene, Lucia sings a Marlene Dietrich song, "Wenn ich mir was wünschen dürfte" ("If I Could Make a Wish"), to the camp guards while wearing pieces of an SS uniform, and Max "rewards" her with the severed head of a male inmate who had been bullying her, referencing Salome.
Because she could testify against him, Lucia's existence is a threat to Max and his former comrades. He goes to see a former Nazi collaborator, Mario, who knows Lucia is still alive; Max murders him offscreen to protect his secret and Lucia. After Lucia's husband leaves town on business, Max and Lucia renew their past lovemaking in Max's apartment. Max confesses to Countess Stein, another guest at his hotel, that he has found his "little girl" again. The Countess tells him that he is insane; Max replies that they are both "in the same boat". Meanwhile, Vogler has Max spied on by Adolph, a youth who works at the hotel.
Max is interviewed by the police about Mario's murder. He spends days with Lucia in his apartment, chaining her to the wall so that "they can't take her away", and sleeps little. Vogler, who wants Lucia to testify against Max in the mock trial—though he harbors more ambiguous long-term intentions towards her—visits and informs her that Max is ill. He suggests that Lucia must also be ill to allow herself to be in this position, but she sends him away, claiming to be with Max of her own free will.
The former SS officers are infuriated at Max for hiding a key witness. Max refuses to proceed with the trial, calling it a "farce", and admits that he works as a night porter due to his sense of shame in daytime. He returns to Lucia, telling her that the police questioned him and others at the hotel about her disappearance, and that no suspicion fell on him. Eventually, Max quits his job, devoting all of his time to Lucia. The former SS officers cut off the couple's supply of food from a nearby grocery store. When Max briefly walks along an outdoor terrace, Vogler shoots and wounds him. Max barricades the door to the apartment, and he and Lucia begin rationing.
Max seeks help by phoning one of his old hotel friends, who refuses, and imp