La Femme Nikita (French pronunciation: [la fam nikita], literally "The Woman Nikita"; called Nikita in Canada) is a Canadian action-drama television series based on the French film Nikita by Luc Besson. The series stars Peta Wilson as the title character. It was co-produced by Jay Firestone of Fireworks Entertainment and Warner Bros. Domestic Television Distribution. It was adapted for television by Joel Surnow. The series was telecast in the United States on the USA Network cable channel on January 13, 1997, and ran for five seasons until March 4, 2001. The series was also aired in Canada on the over-the-air CTV Television Network. La Femme Nikita was the highest-rated drama on American basic cable during its first two seasons. It was also distributed in some other countries.


== Comparison with the film ==
In the original Luc Besson film—and in the American remake Point of No Return (also released as The Assassin), released by Warner Bros.—Nikita is a drug-addicted juvenile delinquent who kills a police officer in cold blood during an attempted robbery of a pharmacy. She is later arrested and sentenced to life imprisonment in Nikita, and to death by lethal injection in Point of No Return, upon which she was secretly drugged by the government, faking her death. Nikita is then "recruited" by a secret government organization and transformed into a highly skilled assassin who cannot be traced.
The television series differs from the film versions in one fundamental aspect: Nikita (Peta Wilson) is innocent. She is not a killer, nor a drug user, just a homeless young woman in the wrong place at the wrong time. Section One—an elite, top-secret counter-terrorism organization—sets Nikita up to be accused of murdering a police officer and sentenced to life in prison where she supposedly commits suicide and is brought into Section One. Because Nikita will be killed (or "cancelled") if she fails to comply, she is forced to carry out the organization's ruthless methods of fighting terrorism, while attempting to keep her moral integrity intact. This personal struggle becomes the primary conflict of the series. A key scene in the two theatrical films involves Nikita's first assignment—to murder a VIP in a crowded restaurant. Although the Nikita of the television series eventually does become, by necessity, a ruthless killer, in the television version of this first mission she avoids killing the VIP (whereas the film versions of the character completes the assignment). However, despite the machinations of others in power around her, Nikita retains her compassion and humanity.
Over time, Nikita's secretive and risky romantic involvement with her trainer, the mysterious Michael Samuelle (Roy Dupuis), will become another source of conflict, and the series' most significant relationship. Just before the conclusion of the series, Nikita also learns the truth of why she was recruited into Section One.


== Cast and characters ==
Characters are listed in order of title credit and by appearance on the show.

  = Main cast (credited) 
  = Recurring cast (2+)
  = Guest cast (1)

Note


=== Main ===
Peta Wilson as Nikita: The show's central protagonist and titular character, Nikita was falsely accused of killing a police officer and sentenced to life in prison, only to be forcibly recruited by Section One and trained as a spy and assassin. Her compassion and sympathy constantly conflict with the ruthless orders she is given, and this endears her to the majority of the people she works with, including Walter, Birkoff, and Michael, who eventually becomes her love interest.
Roy Dupuis as Michael Samuelle: A former radical student activist-turned-coldly efficient assassin, as well as Section’s top mission team leader. At first alternately cruel and compassionate toward Nikita, he eventually falls in love with her, and repeatedly puts his life on the line to protect her.
Eugene Robert Glazer as Operations: The often ruthless head of Section One, and the sh