Nosferatu is an upcoming American gothic horror film written and directed by Robert Eggers, and starring Bill Skarsgård as Count Orlok. Following Werner Herzog's Nosferatu the Vampyre (1979) and David Lee Fisher's Nosferatu: A Symphony of Horrors (2023), it is the third remake of the 1922 film written by Henrik Galeen and directed by F. W. Murnau, which in turn is an "unauthorized and unofficial" adaptation of Bram Stoker's 1897 novel Dracula.
Development on the film began in 2015, following the release of The Witch. Eggers planned to make it his second film, describing it as a passion project, but eventually opted to delay production and go on to direct The Lighthouse and The Northman instead. Frequent collaborator Anya Taylor-Joy was attached to the project earlier, but dropped out due to scheduling conflicts. Skarsgård and Lily-Rose Depp were cast as leads in September 2022. Nicholas Hoult joined the cast the following month, with the remaining cast confirmed in early 2023. Filming primarily took place in and around Prague between February and May 2023.
Nosferatu is a co-production of Studio 8, and Maiden Voyage Pictures, and is set to be released theatrically on December 25, 2024, by Focus Features.


== Premise ==
Robert Eggers' Nosferatu is a gothic tale of obsession between a haunted young woman and the terrifying vampire infatuated with her, causing untold horror in its wake.


== Cast ==


== Production ==


=== Development ===
In July 2015, a remake of Nosferatu (1922) was announced with Robert Eggers writing and directing. The film was intended to be produced by Jay Van Hoy and Lars Knudsen for Studio 8. In November 2016, Eggers expressed surprise that the Nosferatu remake was going to be his second film, saying, "It feels ugly and blasphemous and egomaniacal and disgusting for a filmmaker in my place to do Nosferatu next. I was really planning on waiting a while, but that's how fate shook out." During an interview with Den of Geek around the release of The Lighthouse (2019), Robert Eggers revealed that although he had dedicated a lot of time to bringing the iconic horror film into the 21st century, he didn't know when or if it would happen. Despite that, Eggers said, "Look, I spent so many years and so much time, just so much blood on it, yeah, it would be a real shame if it never happened". 


=== Casting ===
In August 2017, Anya Taylor-Joy was cast. Years later, in early 2022, Eggers was asked if he and Taylor-Joy still communicated about the project, saying, "We definitely talk about it, and I don't know why it's been so hard to make happen." It was revealed in March 2022 that English singer Harry Styles was briefly attached to an undisclosed role in the film, but eventually dropped out due to scheduling conflicts.
In September 2022, it was announced that Bill Skarsgård was set to star as the titular Nosferatu, Count Orlok, with Lily-Rose Depp cast to replace Taylor-Joy.  Skarsgard had talked with Eggers about Nosferatu since the release of The Witch (2015) and originally auditioned for the role of Friedrich Harding. He was instead offered the lead role of Thomas Hutter while Taylor-Joy was still attached to star before the project was stalled for a few years. Skarsgård wrote Eggers an email to see if he could still have a role in the film after wondering if he would still be a part of it, but as Harding and Hutter had already been cast, Eggers offered Skarsgård to read for Count Orlok even though actors in their mid-forties had been initially sought. In October 2022, Nicholas Hoult joined the cast. In January 2023, Willem Dafoe, who had previously portrayed Max Schreck/Count Orlok in Shadow of the Vampire (2000), joined the cast after having co-starred in The Lighthouse. Emma Corrin would join the cast the following month. Aaron Taylor-Johnson, Simon McBurney, and Ralph Ineson were revealed to be in the cast at the start of production in late February 2023.


=== Filming ===
Principal photography began in the C