Number Seventeen is a 1932 British comedy thriller film directed by Alfred Hitchcock and starring John Stuart, Anne Grey and Leon M. Lion. The film, which is based on the 1925 burlesque stage play Number Seventeen written by Joseph Jefferson Farjeon, concerns a group of criminals who commit a jewel robbery and hide their loot in an old house over a railway leading to the English Channel. The film's title is derived from the house's street number.


== Plot ==

Along a coastline in rural England, police Detective Barton arrives at a house, Number 17, marked for sale or rent. The door is unlocked, and he wanders in. An unknown person with a candle is wandering about and a dead body is found. When confronted, the mysterious person claims innocence of the murder. Barton, who introduces himself as Fordyce, asks the stranger about the contents of his pockets before the shadow of a hand is shown reaching for a doorknob. The stranger, who later introduces himself as Ben, a homeless derelict, searches the dead body and finds handcuffs and a pistol, which he takes.
The Detective returns from investigating weird sounds and finds the handcuffs that the stranger had left on the ground. A woman called Ms. Ackroyd is seen through shadows crawling on the roof. After falling through the roof, she is revived and cries out for her father. She explains that her father is on the roof and that they are next door in Number 15.
The bell tolls half past midnight, and the dead body has disappeared. Three people arrive at the windswept house: Brant, Nora (a deaf-mute woman) and a third person named Henry Doyle. Ben produces a pistol and accidentally shoots Barton/Fordyce in the arm. Brant produces a pistol of his own and asks Doyle to search Barton/Fordyce, Ben and Miss Rose Ackroyd. A telegram is revealed to Brant. A man named Sheldrake shows up and retrieves a diamond necklace, which he has hidden in the upper portion of a toilet. Ben causes a commotion and is locked away with Sheldrake in the toilet.
Sheldrake reaches out and appears to strangle Ben, who is only feigning unconsciousness. The supposed corpse turns out to be alive and pretends to be Sheldrake in order to fool the thieves. (He is, in fact, Rose's missing father, a police officer). Brant suggests binding Rose and Barton/Fordyce. Officer Ackroyd manages to lock away the three thieves and frees his daughter and Barton. He opens the door behind which Ben is locked away with Sheldrake and engages in a fistfight with Sheldrake.
Sheldrake wins the fistfight and frees Brant, Doyle, and Nora. Rose and Barton/Fordyce are bound again. Nora reveals that she is able to speak and says, "I'm coming back." She returns and frees Rose and Barton. Rose faints but recovers. Nora returns to the basement to allay the suspicions of the other thieves and to buy time for the rest to escape. They free Ben and Ackroyd. The thieves arrive at the railyard and board a departing freight train bound for the German States.
The train departs with Ben aboard and he stumbles onto crates of wine to consume. The thieves, after dispatching the conductor, walk to the front of the train, shoot the fireman and catch the driver as he faints. Barton, who failed to board the train before it departed, commandeers a bus and chases after the train. Ben is revealed to have the necklace. Sheldrake discovers this, and the thieves fight each other. Sheldrake claims that Doyle, is in fact, a detective posing as a thief. A chase scene occurs on the train as the thieves go after Doyle, who escapes and later handcuffs Nora. Barton’s bus races after the train. The thieves, realizing that the train is accelerating, try to find the brakes. They operate controls helplessly and notice Barton's/Fordyce's bus.
Despite the thieves' efforts, the train only accelerates, leaving them unable to escape. At the dock, the ferry arrives. As Barton watches, the train hurtles through the dock, crashes into the train on the ferry at full speed and pushes it ou