"At Seventeen" is a song by American singer-songwriter Janis Ian from her seventh studio album Between the Lines. Columbia released it in July 1975 as the album's second single. Ian wrote the lyrics on the basis of a New York Times article and used a samba instrumental, and Brooks Arthur produced the final version. A pop and soft rock ballad, the song is about a social outcast in high school. Critics have regarded "At Seventeen" as a type of anthem. Despite her initial reluctance to perform the single live, Ian promoted it at various appearances and it has been included on compilation and live albums.
Critics praised "At Seventeen", which earned Ian the Grammy Award for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance, and Grammy nominations for Record and Song of the Year. The single reached number three on the Billboard Hot 100 chart, and had sold over a million copies as of August 2004. Internationally, "At Seventeen" charted in Australia, Canada, and New Zealand. It is one of Ian's most commercially successful songs, considered by critics her signature song. "At Seventeen" has been used frequently in television and films, like The Simpsons and Mean Girls; it has also been referenced in literature. Various recording artists and musicians, including Anita Kerr, Jann Arden, and Celine Dion, have covered "At Seventeen". The Hong Kong all-female band at17 named themselves after it in 2002.


== Background and recording ==
"At Seventeen" was written by Janis Ian at the age of 23 and produced by Brooks Arthur. She was inspired to write the single after reading a New York Times article about a young woman who thought her life would improve after a debutante ball and her subsequent disappointment when it did not. In the article the girl was 18, but Ian changed it to 17 to fit with her samba guitar instrumental. She recalled feeling uncomfortable while writing "At Seventeen" as it predated the confessional song trend of the 1970s. She was also uncertain about writing about high school when she had never experienced a homecoming or a prom. She said she purposely took her time with the song to ensure it did not lose its "intensity"; she repeatedly stopped and started work on it over the course of three months. At the time, she was living with her mother.
During the recording process, which Ian described as "very tense", she worried she had accidentally stolen the melody from a different song and consulted with three friends about it. Arthur described the song as "just honest and straight from her heart", and felt it was different from folk or pop music. He said Ian was easy to work with as she had prepared by bringing lyric sheets and arrangements to the studio sessions. Arthur and Ian had worked together on her 1966 single "Society's Child", during which they formed a close friendship. "At Seventeen" was completed in roughly two or three days at 914 Sound Studios; it was recorded on September 17, 1974. The final version contains two combined takes, as the initial ending was deemed too weak compared to its start. Allen Klein listened in during a session and responded positively to the song. Brooks Arthur, Larry Alexander, and Russ Payne were the audio engineers for "At Seventeen".


== Composition and lyrics ==

"At Seventeen" is composed in the key of C major using common time and a moderate tempo of 126 beats per minute. Instrumentation is provided by a piano and a guitar. During the track, Ian's vocal range spans from the low note of G3 to the high note of A♭4. Some commentators connected the song to bossa nova. Mix magazine's Gary Eskow cited Ian's style as the opposite of Antônio Carlos Jobim's because she "explore[d] the belly of the bossa, the flip side of Ipanema". John Lissner of The New York Times referred to the instrumental as having a "laid‐back bossa nova beat" and ostinato. On the other hand, AllMusic's Lindsay Planer referred to "At Seventeen" as a mixture of pop rock, jazz, and blues, and music scholar James E. Perone associated it 