The 68th Cannes Film Festival was held from 13 to 24 May 2015. Ethan Coen and Joel Coen were the Co-Presidents of the Jury for the main competition. It was the first time that two people chaired the jury. Since the Coen brothers each received a separate vote, they were joined by seven other jurors to form the customary nine-juror panel. French actor Lambert Wilson was the host for the opening and closing ceremonies. The Official Selection of films for the 2015 festival, including the line-up for the Main Competition, was announced on 16 April 2015.
The Palme d'Or was awarded to the French film Dheepan directed by Jacques Audiard. On winning the award Audiard said "To receive a prize from the Coen brothers is something pretty exceptional. I'm very touched". French film director Agnès Varda was presented with the Honorary Palme d'Or at the festival's closing ceremony. She is also the first female filmmaker to ever receive the award.
The festival poster featured Hollywood star and Swedish actress Ingrid Bergman, photographed by David Seymour. The poster was chosen to pay tribute to Bergman for her contributions to films and who also served as the Jury President at 1973 Cannes Film Festival. As part of the tribute to Bergman, the Swedish documentary Ingrid Bergman: In Her Own Words was screened in the Cannes Classics section.
Standing Tall, directed by Emmanuelle Bercot, was the festival's opening film. This was the second opening film in the festival's history to have been directed by a woman, after A Man in Love by Diane Kurys which opened the 1987 Cannes Film Festival. Ice and the Sky, directed by Luc Jacquet, was the festival's closing film. Both the opening and closing films were selected for the strength and importance of their messages—Standing Tall for the way its themes respond to the Charlie Hebdo shootings and Ice and the Sky for its concern for the future of the planet.
At the festival, director Thierry Frémaux asked celebrities to abstain from taking selfies on the red carpet. While he did not have the powers to ban the pictures from the red carpet altogether, Thierry Fremaux urged celebrities to resist the temptation.


== Juries ==


=== Main competition ===
The full jury for the Main Competition was announced on 21 April 2015:

Ethan Coen, American filmmaker - Jury Co-President
Joel Coen, American filmmaker - Jury Co-President
Rossy de Palma, Spanish actress
Guillermo del Toro, Mexican film director
Xavier Dolan, Canadian film director and actor
Jake Gyllenhaal, American actor
Sophie Marceau, French actress and film director
Sienna Miller, English actress
Rokia Traoré, Malian singer-songwriter and composer


=== Un Certain Regard ===
Isabella Rossellini, Italian-American actress - Jury President
Haifaa al-Mansour, Saudi Arabian film director
Panos H. Koutras, Greek film director
Nadine Labaki, Lebanese film director and actress
Tahar Rahim, French actor


=== Camera d'Or ===
Sabine Azéma, French actress - Jury President
Claude Garnier, French cinematographer
Delphine Gleize, French film director
Yann Gonzalez, French film director
Didier Huck, French Technicolor executive
Bernard Payen, French film critic and curator
Melvil Poupaud, French actor


=== Cinéfondation and Short Films Competition ===
Abderrahmane Sissako, Mauritanian film director - Jury President
Cécile de France, Belgian actress
Joana Hadjithomas, Lebanese film director
Daniel Olbrychski, Polish actor
Rebecca Zlotowski, French film director


=== Critics' Week ===
Ronit Elkabetz, Israeli actress and film director - Jury President
Andréa Picard, Canadian film curator and critic
Katell Quillévéré, French film director
Peter Suschitzky, English cinematographer
Boyd van Hoeij, French-based Dutch film critic


=== L'Œil d'or ===
Rithy Panh, Franco-Cambodian documentary film director - Jury President
Diana El Jeiroudi, Syrian documentary film producer
Scott Foundas, American film critic
Irène Jacob, Franco-Swiss actress
Nicolas Philibert, French documentar