Chase Russell Oliver (born August 16, 1985) is an American political activist, sales account executive, HR representative and nominee of the Libertarian Party for the 2024 United States presidential election. Oliver was the Libertarian candidate for the 2022 United States Senate election in Georgia and the 2020 Georgia's 5th congressional district special election.
In the 2022 Georgia special United States Senate election, Oliver received over 2% of the popular vote, and was accused of acting as a spoiler candidate and forcing the Georgia senate race into a run-off.


== Early life ==
Oliver was born on August 16, 1985, in Nashville, Tennessee. He worked in the restaurant business for 13 years prior to his involvement in political activism.


== Activism ==

On September 5, 2023, Oliver spoke at the Columbia, South Carolina City Council meeting in opposition to regulatory hurdles that prevent people from feeding the homeless. He advocated for the Columbia City Council, and other city councils across the country, to address regulatory barriers to feeding and supporting homeless Americans.
On May 15, 2023, Oliver spoke at the Atlanta City Council meeting to oppose Cop City. During his speech, Oliver highlighted the growing distrust between people and governments and their police forces. Oliver spoke out against the over-militarization of police and qualified immunity. He also advocated for the Atlanta City Council to improve existing training facilities instead of clear-cutting forests that had previously been designated by the City Council as public open space.


== Political career ==
Oliver was previously a Democrat and supported Barack Obama in the 2008 U.S. presidential election, but he left the party after Obama continued the Iraq War. Oliver joined the Libertarian Party in 2010 after meeting several members of the party at an Atlanta Pride Festival.


=== 2020 U.S. House campaign ===
Oliver first ran for public office in 2020, as the Libertarian nominee for the 2020 Georgia's 5th congressional district special election to replace John Lewis, who had died from pancreatic cancer earlier that year. He won 2% of the vote and was eliminated during the blanket primary.


=== 2022 U.S. Senate campaign ===
After becoming the Libertarian nominee for the 2022 U.S. Senate election in Georgia, Oliver faced off against the incumbent Democratic Raphael Warnock and Republican Party challenger Herschel Walker. Oliver was the first openly gay Senate candidate in Georgia.
On October 16, 2022, Oliver attended a debate hosted by Georgia Public Broadcasting and debated against Warnock, as well as an empty podium representing Walker, who had declined to attend the debate.
On election day, Oliver received over 2% of the popular vote. Opponents contended that he was a spoiler candidate and that his votes forced the Georgia senate race into a run-off. In the runoff election, he declined to endorse either Warnock or Walker, but offered to host an internet forum between the two candidates. Rolling Stone called him the most influential Libertarian of the year.


=== 2024 presidential campaign ===

On December 2, 2022, Oliver announced his formation of an exploratory committee to inquire into a possible run for the Libertarian presidential nomination in the 2024 U.S. presidential election. He formally declared his candidacy on April 4, 2023.
Oliver campaigned extensively in Iowa during the summer of 2023. The Gazette described him as a "pro-gun, pro-police reform, pro-choice Libertarian" who is "armed and gay." On August 19, 2023, he spoke at the Des Moines Register Political Soapbox, becoming the first-ever third-party presidential candidate to speak at the event.
Oliver filed to run in Oklahoma's "first Libertarian presidential primary election since the party was formally recognized in 2016". Alongside fellow Libertarian primary candidate Jacob Hornberger, Oliver achieved ballot access by collecting signatures from voters in each Congressional dis