On the Waterfront is a 1954 American crime drama film, directed by Elia Kazan and written by Budd Schulberg. It stars Marlon Brando, and features Karl Malden, Lee J. Cobb, Rod Steiger, Pat Henning and Eva Marie Saint in her film debut. The musical score was composed by Leonard Bernstein. The black-and-white film was inspired by "Crime on the Waterfront" by Malcolm Johnson, a series of articles published in November–December 1948 in the New York Sun which won the 1949 Pulitzer Prize for Local Reporting, but the screenplay by Budd Schulberg is directly based on his own original story. The film focuses on union violence and corruption among longshoremen, while detailing widespread corruption, extortion, and racketeering on the waterfronts of Hoboken, New Jersey.
On the Waterfront was a critical and commercial success and is considered one of the greatest films ever made. It received twelve Academy Award nominations and won eight, including Best Picture, Best Actor for Brando, Best Supporting Actress for Saint, and Best Director for Kazan. In 1997, it was ranked by the American Film Institute as the eighth-greatest American movie of all time; in AFI's 2007 list, it was ranked 19th. It is Bernstein's only original film score not adapted from a stage production with songs.
In 1989, On the Waterfront was one of the first 25 films to be deemed "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant" by the Library of Congress and selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry.


== Plot ==
Terry Malloy is a former prize fighter whose career was cut short when he purposely lost a fight at the request of local mob boss Johnny Friendly. Terry now works for Friendly's labor union as a longshoreman while his older, more educated brother Charley is Friendly's right-hand man. One day Terry is coerced into luring fellow worker Joey Doyle onto a rooftop, where he believes Friendly's henchmen want to talk Joey out of testifying to the Waterfront Crime Commission. When they instead murder Joey by throwing him off the roof, Terry is upset and confronts Friendly, but is threatened and bribed into acquiescence. Depending on their jobs and fearing Friendly's ruthlessness, the other dockworkers likewise play "deaf and dumb".
Joey's sister Edie shames the local priest Father Barry into calling the dockworkers to a meeting, where he tries unsuccessfully to persuade them to stand together. Terry attends as a snitch for Friendly, but when the meeting is violently broken up by Friendly's men, he helps Edie escape, missing how Father Barry convinces one wounded worker to testify. Friendly and Charley get angry at Terry for getting involved with Edie and not informing them of the testimony, dropping their usual joviality. The next day the worker who testified is killed in a staged workplace accident.
Father Barry makes an impassioned speech, comparing the murders to Christ's crucifixion. Like the other workers, Terry is still unwilling to testify, even after he is subpoenaed, but his guilt and regret grow along with his feelings for Edie as he sees her relentless pursuit of justice. He confesses his role in Joey's death to Father Barry and later to Edie, who runs away horrified.
To keep Terry quiet, Friendly sends Charley with a job offer. Knowing Friendly will have Terry killed if he refuses, Charley tries his best to persuade his brother, eventually even threatening him with a gun. Terry gently waves away and expresses regret about throwing his best fight, blaming Charley for setting up the fix. Charley gives Terry the gun and tells him to run. Terry seeks out Edie, who initially refuses to let him in. When they eventually kiss after a short struggle, Terry's name is called from the street and the two run out. After nearly being run down by a truck, Edie and Terry find Charley's body hung on a hook in the alley.
Terry goes to a bar intending to shoot Friendly, but is stopped by Father Barry, who persuades him to instead testify in c