The 2007 One Night Stand (marketed as One Night Stand: Extreme Rules) was the third annual One Night Stand professional wrestling pay-per-view (PPV) event produced by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held for wrestlers from the promotion's Raw, SmackDown!, and ECW brand divisions. The event took place on June 3, 2007, at the Jacksonville Veterans Memorial Arena in Jacksonville, Florida. While the previous two years' events were held primarily as reunion shows for Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW) alumni, the 2007 event was promoted as a WWE event with wrestlers from all three brands participating as following WrestleMania 23, brand-exclusive PPVs were discontinued. It was the final event to announce each individual brand as co-promoters of the PPV during the introductory graphics.
The main match on the Raw brand was John Cena versus The Great Khali in a Pinfalls Count Anywhere match for the WWE Championship. Cena won the match and retained the WWE Championship after pinning Khali following an FU off a crane onto the arena floor. The featured match on the SmackDown! brand was Edge versus Batista in a Steel Cage match for the World Heavyweight Championship, which Edge won after escaping the cage.
The primary match on the ECW brand was Vince McMahon versus Bobby Lashley in a Street Fight for the ECW World Championship, which Lashley won by pinfall after performing a spear. The featured matches on the undercard included Rob Van Dam versus Randy Orton in a Stretcher match and a Ladder match for the World Tag Team Championship between The Hardys (Matt and Jeff) and The World's Greatest Tag Team (Shelton Benjamin and Charlie Haas).


== Production ==


=== Background ===
One Night Stand was an annual pay-per-view (PPV), produced every June by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) since 2005. The event was originally produced as a reunion show for wrestlers from the former Extreme Championship Wrestling promotion and featured hardcore-based matches, before WWE established a third brand dubbed ECW in 2006. While the first two years' events were promoted as a reunion show for Extreme Championship Wrestling and included the "ECW" initials affixed to the event's name, the 2007 event was promoted as a WWE event and featured wrestlers from the promotion's Raw, SmackDown!, and ECW brands. The third event in the One Night Stand chronology, it was scheduled to be held on June 3, 2007, at the Jacksonville Veterans Memorial Arena in Jacksonville, Florida. Although no longer promoted as a reunion show, it still continued the theme of featuring hardcore-based matches.


=== Storylines ===
The main feud heading into the event on the Raw brand, was between WWE Champion John Cena and The Great Khali. This was a rematch of their encounter at Judgment Day, the pay-per-view two weeks before One Night Stand. At the event, Cena defeated Khali by forcing him to submit to the STFU. When Khali submitted to the STFU, however, his feet were underneath the bottom rope, meaning Cena should have broken the submission hold. Referee Mike Chioda was focusing on Khali's arm and did not see Khali's feet underneath the bottom rope. The following night on Raw, believing he should not have lost the match, Khali challenged Cena to a Falls Count Anywhere match. After Cena's acceptance, Khali Chokeslammed Cena. Heading into One Night Stand, Khali Chokebombed Cena again to win a non-title match against Cena on the June 2 episode of Saturday Night's Main Event XXXIV.
The predominant feud on the SmackDown! brand heading into the pay-per-view was between Edge and Batista, with the two battling over the World Heavyweight Championship. The two fought each other at Judgment Day for the title, and Edge won the bout with a school boy pin. On the May 25 episode of SmackDown!, General manager Theodore Long announced that Edge would defend the World Heavyweight Championship in a Steel Cage match at One Night Stand. Batista won a Fatal Four-Way match against Finlay, Kane, an