Operation Dumbo Drop is a 1995 American action comedy war film directed by Simon Wincer. The screenplay was written by Gene Quintano and Jim Kouf, based on a true story by United States Army major Jim Morris. The film stars Danny Glover and Ray Liotta as Green Berets during the Vietnam War in 1968, who attempt to transport an elephant through jungle terrain to a local South Vietnamese village which in turn helps American forces monitor Viet Cong activity. Denis Leary, Doug E. Doug, and Corin Nemec also star. The film deals broadly with themes of war, politics and animal welfare.
The film was produced by Interscope Communications and PolyGram Filmed Entertainment. It was distributed by Walt Disney Pictures theatrically, and by Buena Vista Home Entertainment for home media.
Operation Dumbo Drop premiered in theaters nationwide in the United States on July 28, 1995, grossing $24,670,346 in domestic ticket receipts. The film was a moderate financial success after its theatrical run, and received mixed-to-negative reviews from critics.


== Plot ==
During the Vietnam War in 1968, Green Beret Captain Sam Cahill has been working hard to create good relations between the United States and Montagnard Vietnamese in the village of Dak Nhe, which occupies an important observation point near the clandestine Ho Chi Minh trail. Cahill is coming close to his discharge, and explains to his successor, Captain T.C. Doyle, the delicate nature of Vietnamese customs as well as the counterintelligence involving covert enemy activity.
In a lapse of judgment with surrounding village children, a child steals a Nestlé Crunch bar from Doyle's backpack; the wrapper, when found, lets the NVA know of the local villagers' cooperation with the Americans. As punishment, Brigadier Nguyen of the NVA, orders his subordinate, Captain Quang, to kill the villagers' elephant right before a spiritual festival. To aid the villagers, Cahill promises to replace the slain elephant before their upcoming ceremony while Doyle (whom the villagers blame for the elephant's death) reluctantly agrees to help.
At camp, Major Pederson assigns Cahill and Doyle, with Doyle in command, to secure and deliver a new elephant to the villagers, as well as two soldiers, Specialist 4 Harvey Ashford and Specialist 5 Lawrence Farley. Cahill blackmails Chief Warrant Officer 3 David Poole into helping as well. They purchase an elephant known as Bo Tat (Bồ Tát) from a local Vietnamese trader. They also agree to take along Bo Tat's child handler, Linh, who has experience with verbal commands in guiding the elephant. Along the way, NVA soldiers attempt to stop them. Following a failed air transport, the soldiers use a combination of methods to reach Pleiku Air Base before the final stage of their journey to Dak Nhe.
At Pleiku Air Base, Major Pederson notifies the captains that the mission has been cancelled. The Ho Chi Minh Trail has changed direction, and they no longer need the support of the local village. A CIA airstrip near Dak Nhe has already been destroyed by the NVA, making a landing by plane impossible. Against regulations, they commandeer a cargo aircraft, intending to parachute themselves and Bo Tat into Dak Nhe. The aircraft comes under enemy fire, forcing them and Bo Tat to parachute out early. Quang, having been ordered by Nguyen to kill Bo Tat, refuses to do so this time, explaining "I did not join this army to shoot elephants, especially ones that fly."
The soldiers land unharmed in and around the village, except for Ashford, who gets stuck in a tree and becomes separated from the rest.
NVA forces suddenly appear, threatening to take the remaining soldiers hostage and kill the elephant. Ashford, however, is able to free himself and create a diversion long enough to distract and incapacitate the NVA troops. The villagers hold their festival with Bo Tat in the place of honor. When Cahill radios the air base, he is informed that the supply route has changed direction again, back to the