Out of Sight is a 1998 American crime comedy film directed by Steven Soderbergh and written by Scott Frank, adapted from Elmore Leonard's 1996 novel of the same name. The first of several collaborations between Soderbergh and actor George Clooney, it was released on June 26, 1998.
The film stars Clooney and Jennifer Lopez, co-starring Ving Rhames, Don Cheadle, Dennis Farina, Nancy Allen, Steve Zahn, Catherine Keener, and Albert Brooks. There are also special appearances by Michael Keaton, briefly reprising his role as Ray Nicolette from Quentin Tarantino's Jackie Brown the previous year, and Samuel L. Jackson.
The film received Academy Award nominations for Best Adapted Screenplay and Best Film Editing. It won the Edgar Award for Best Screenplay and the National Society of Film Critics awards for Best Film, Best Director, and Best Screenplay. The film led to a short-lived spin-off television series in 2003 titled Karen Sisco starring Carla Gugino, who would reprise her role from the series in a 2012 third season episode of Justified. Paul Calderón reprised his role as Raymond Cruz from the film in the 2023 sequel miniseries Justified: City Primeval.


== Plot ==
The movie cuts between flashbacks and the present day; this plot summary follows the true chronology.
Career bank robber Jack Foley is incarcerated at Lompoc Penitentiary in California along with his friend and accomplice Buddy Bragg. While at Lompoc Foley meets Glenn Michaels—a nervous petty criminal who always wears sunglasses, even at night—as well as Richard Ripley, a wealthy white collar criminal from Detroit. Foley saves Ripley from being extorted by boxer Maurice "Snoopy" Miller, leading Ripley to promise Foley a job on the outside. He also brags about a cache of uncut diamonds hidden at his home.
After his release Foley turns up at Ripley's office, but is offered only a menial security guard position. He confronts Ripley to complain, but Ripley insults Foley and throws him out of the building. Foley notices a bank across the street, impulsively robs it, is arrested when his car won't start, and is sent to Glades Correctional Institution in Florida.
At Glades he deduces that fellow inmate Chino is planning a breakout and calls his ex-wife Adele, telling her to notify Buddy that he plans to use their tunnel to also escape. On the night of the breakout, however, U.S. Marshal Karen Sisco coincidentally arrives at the prison exactly when Chino's group break ground outside the fence, and she alerts the guards. Foley, wearing a guard's uniform he stole moments earlier, crawls through the tunnel and overpowers Sisco by pretending to have been chasing the escapees from inside. He and Buddy steal her car, forcing her to hide with him in the trunk while Buddy drives. They meet Glenn under a nearby bridge to switch cars, but Sisco recognizes him from a previous prisoner transport job and convinces him to drive off with her to avoid being arrested again for assisting a fugitive, leaving Foley and Buddy to walk to Miami. Glenn later panics while driving and crashes the car on the freeway—he flees, leaving an unconscious Sisco behind. She dreams that she tracks Foley down, but instead of arresting him they have sex. 
After waking in hospital Sisco becomes determined to find a way onto the task force hunting the fugitives. She visits Adele to ask about Foley's past. While there, Chino arrives, seeking revenge on Foley for ruining his escape plan. Sisco arrests him, earning herself a place on the task force. The task force next raids Buddy's hotel room, but the condescending lead agent orders her to wait in the lobby while they enter the room. She and Foley spot each other as he and Buddy take the elevator to escape via the basement garage. He waves at her, momentarily stunning her, and she lets them go without raising the alarm. 
Foley and Buddy head to Detroit, planning to break into Ripley's house and steal the diamonds. However, they hear that Miller is also putting a burgl