Outrageous Fortune is a New Zealand family comedy crime drama television series, which ran from 12 July 2005 to 9 November 2010 on TV3. The series followed the lives of the career criminal West family after the matriarch, Cheryl (Robyn Malcolm), decided the family should go straight and abide by the law. The show was created by James Griffin and Rachel Lang and produced by South Pacific Pictures.
Like the show itself, episodes took their names from Shakespeare quotations. The show concluded after 6 seasons and 107 episodes making it the longest running drama series made in New Zealand. The primary cast for the show's run consisted of Robyn Malcolm, Antony Starr, Siobhan Marshall, Antonia Prebble, Frank Whitten and Kirk Torrance; Grant Bowler appeared in a sporadic role throughout the show's first five seasons.
The show premiered on 12 July 2005 and was welcomed by high acclaim. It won many of the major categories in the New Zealand television awards for its first 4 years, with Malcolm's performance warmly recognised by most New Zealand reviewers. Following the show's success, Outrageous Fortune received worldwide interest and in 2008 was adapted for United Kingdom television as Honest and again in 2010 for United States residents as Scoundrels, neither of which were renewed after their debut seasons.
In 2014, TV3 announced a six-part prequel miniseries entitled Westside that chronicles the lives of Ted and Rita West in 1970s Auckland. Initially airing in May 2015, Westside was renewed for a second season in 2016; then repeatedly again up to the sixth and final series which concluded in November 2020.


== Overview ==
The series followed the lives of the West family, headed by Cheryl (Robyn Malcolm) and Wolf West (Grant Bowler) in their working class West Auckland home. The family relied on crime for an income, with Cheryl working at a stolen goods shop. When Wolf is incarcerated, Cheryl informs her family, Van (Antony Starr), Jethro (Antony Starr), Pascalle (Siobhan Marshall), Loretta (Antonia Prebble) and Ted (Frank Whitten), that they will obey the law and avoid committing any more crimes. Show creator Rachel Lang described the series as an "upside down morality tale and a family story about a woman who tries to make her family go straight."


== Cast and characters ==

The show's initial seasons focused primarily on the West family. However, as the seasons developed, the focus branched out onto the family's affiliates and enemies.

Robyn Malcolm as Cheryl West (seasons 1–6), the family matriarch who, after husband Wolf gets imprisoned, decides to make her family go straight. Throughout the series, she goes through numerous jobs before starting a lingerie business. While fiercely devoted to her loved ones, her stubborn and combative personality regularly leads them to butt heads.
Antony Starr as Jethro and Van West (seasons 1–6), identical twin brothers with extremely different personalities. While Jethro is a slick, amoral lawyer, Van is a dim but generally well-meaning stoner.
Siobhan Marshall as Pascalle West (seasons 1–6), the eldest daughter of the West family. She is a shallow-minded, statuesque blonde renowned throughout the West Auckland community for her beauty. Despite being introduced as spoiled and self-absorbed, she gradually grows into a strong, caring woman well suited to succeed Cheryl as the West family matriarch.
Antonia Prebble as Loretta West (seasons 1–6), the youngest member of the West family as well as the most intelligent. Calculating and remorseless, Loretta is utterly ruthless in pursuit of her goals. Despite her twisted nature, she is revealed to genuinely love her family and proves indispensable in saving them from dangers both outside and within. By the series end, she is a mother and a wife.
Frank Whitten as Ted West (seasons 1–6), Wolf's retired safe cracker father who is eccentric to the point of foul
Kirk Torrance as Detective Sergeant Wayne Judd (seasons 1–6), initially the West family's ne