The Outsiders is a 1983 American coming-of-age crime drama film directed by Francis Ford Coppola. The film is an adaptation of the 1967 novel of the same name by S. E. Hinton and was released on March 25, 1983, in the United States. Jo Ellen Misakian, a librarian at Lone Star Elementary School in Fresno, California, and her students were responsible for inspiring Coppola to make the film.
The film is noted for its cast of up-and-coming stars, including C. Thomas Howell (who garnered a Young Artist Award), Rob Lowe, in his feature film debut, Emilio Estevez, Matt Dillon, Tom Cruise, Patrick Swayze, Ralph Macchio, and Diane Lane. The film helped spark the Brat Pack genre of the 1980s. Dillon would also star in two more films based on Hinton novels: Tex (1982), with Estevez, and Coppola's Rumble Fish (1983), with Lane. Estevez wrote and starred in the Hinton adaptation That Was Then... This Is Now (1985).
The film received mostly positive reviews from critics, most notably for its performances, and performed well at the box office, grossing $33.7 million on a $10 million budget. Over the years, the film has earned a cult following.


== Plot ==
The Curtis brothers' parents are deceased, leaving eldest brother Darrel left to raise and support Sodapop and Ponyboy, his two younger brothers, in 1965 Tulsa. The "Socs" harass and assault Ponyboy until some of his fellow greasers chase them off. He and Dallas catch a movie at the local drive-in, where Dallas unsuccessfully flirts with "Soc" Cherry Valance and later leaves in a rage. Cherry invites Ponyboy and Johnny to sit with her and her friend. Their Soc boyfriends take umbrage at this, so the girls leave with them to avoid any escalation.
Pony and Johnny walk to an abandoned lot, to help Johnny avoid his parents' routinely volatile bickering and domestic violence. He laments the hopelessness of his young life and even considers suicide. Ponyboy falls asleep and awakens a few hours later and rushes home where Darrel and Soda are waiting up for him. Darrel confronts Ponyboy, ending in Darrel violently knocking Ponyboy to the floor. Ponyboy runs off to a local park with Johnny. They reminisce about their childhood until they are confronted and attacked by Bob and three other Socs. Johnny is beaten, and Pony is almost drowned in the park's fountain, until Johnny stabs Bob and he is maimed.
Ponyboy and Johnny find Dallas, who gives them money for food and a loaded firearm. They flee to Windrixville after hopping on a train and hide out in an abandoned church, where they cut their hair, dye Ponyboy's hair blond. They read Gone with the Wind aloud to pass the time. Dallas visits, taking them to get a meal at a local restaurant. A note from Sodapop urges Ponyboy to come home, as Cherry is willing to testify on their behalf. Johnny favors turning themselves in, but Dallas disagrees.
Returning to the church, they discover that it is on fire with children trapped inside. They manage to rescue them from the inferno but are burned. Johnny breaks his back when a part of the structure collapses on him. Ponyboy reunites with his two older brothers in the hospital and then returns home. Their heroic deed makes the front page of the local paper, but the judge may send Ponyboy to a boys' home. Randy peacefully talks to Ponyboy about the upcoming rumble. Ponyboy and Two-Bit visit Johnny and Dallas in the hospital. Ponyboy asks Two-Bit to buy another copy of Gone with the Wind at the hospital gift shop. Johnny's mother comes, but he refuses her visit, and she takes out her ire on Ponyboy and Two-Bit, who decries her as a bad mother. 
Dallas encourages them to win the upcoming rumble for Johnny. Ponyboy meets with Cherry about the trial. She refuses to visit Johnny at the hospital because he killed Bob. The greasers win the rumble. Dallas drives an injured Ponyboy to the hospital to see Johnny. Ponyboy tells him about the greasers' victory, but Johnny is dismissive and dies after telling Ponyboy to "stay