The Outsiders is a 2023 musical with music and lyrics by Jonathan Clay and Zach Chance from the folk rock band Jamestown Revival alongside Justin Levine and a book by Adam Rapp and Levine. It is based on the novel The Outsiders, first published in 1967 and written by S. E. Hinton, and on its 1983 film adaptation written by Kathleen Rowell and directed by Francis Ford Coppola. In 1990, playwright Christopher Sergel published a straight play version of the story.
The musical, told from the perspective of 14-year-old Ponyboy Curtis, is set in Tulsa, Oklahoma during the 1960s and follows the conflict between two rival gangs divided by their socioeconomic status: the working-class "Greasers" and the upper-middle-class "Socs" (pronounced —short for Socials).
The show received mixed-to-positive reviews, with most of the praise directed towards the script, choreography and Brody Grant's performance as Ponyboy. It received 12 nominations at the 77th Tony Awards, including Best Musical.


== Plot ==
This is the plot of the Broadway production from 2024. There may have been changes in the transfer from La Jolla.


=== Act 1 ===
Ponyboy Curtis, aged 14, is writing in a notebook, when he begins to introduce the world of the show — Tulsa in 1967. He introduces his eldest brother Darrel who used to be a football star with "a ticket out," and his middle brother Sodapop, who recently had his heart broken. He introduces the Greasers, the more gritty, grounded counterparts to the Socs who "live like socialites." He specifically points out his best friend, Greaser Johnny Cade, who was recently jumped by Socs ("Tulsa, '67").
Ponyboy is jumped by the same Socs who attacked Johnny, led by their ringleader Bob. The Socs attempt to cut Ponyboy's hair to make him look like a Soc, Ponyboy bites one of them, and then goes unconscious. He wakes up to his brothers cleaning him up. The other Greasers — led by Dally, who just got out of county lockup — tell Ponyboy that he has officially become a Greaser, having gotten through this experience and come out the other end. Darrel worries that Ponyboy is making an irresponsible choice in cementing himself as a Greaser, but Dally makes it official anyway ("Grease Got a Hold").
Darrel is at home folding laundry, reflecting on his role as a pseudo-father to his younger brothers after their parents recently died in a car accident ("Runs in the Family"). Ponyboy comes home and asks Darrel if he can go to the drive-in with Johnny, Two-Bit, and Dally. Darrel agrees, as long as Ponyboy stays careful and isn't late for curfew. Ponyboy and Sodapop discuss how Darrel's in a hard place right now, and Ponyboy asks his brother if, like himself, he dreams about his parents' accident. Sodapop says no, before asking Ponyboy about the book he's reading. Ponyboy and Sodapop reflect on the similarities they each see in the characters in the book "Great Expectations" by Charles Dickens. After Sodapop goes to sleep, Ponyboy keeps reading and following this train of thought ("Great Expectations").
Meanwhile, Dally finds Johnny outside his house, with sounds of intense arguing from inside. After it becomes clear this has happened before, Johnny tells Dally that he stays at home because he's scared his father will kill his mother. Dally offers to go inside the house himself, but Johnny doesn't let him. Dally gives Johnny a cigarette for warmth, a Hershey Bar, and a knife, which he teaches Johnny how to use.
The next day, Dally, Johnny, and Ponyboy all go to the drive-in, which is full of Socs. There, they meet Sherri "Cherry" Valance ("Friday at the Drive-in"). Dally keeps hitting on Cherry, claiming she's "not as innocent" as she may seem. Johnny tries to stop him. After Dally leaves, Cherry and her friend Marcia invite Ponyboy and Johnny to sit with them, before eventually asking Ponyboy to escort her to the concession stand. There, the two begin talking and realize that the other isn't exactly as stereotypes led them to believe — Che