Pajama Party is a 1964 beach party film starring Tommy Kirk and Annette Funicello. This is the fourth in a series of seven beach films produced by American International Pictures. The other films in this series are Beach Party (1963), Muscle Beach Party (1964), Bikini Beach (1964), Beach Blanket Bingo (1965), How to Stuff a Wild Bikini (1965), Ski Party (1965) and The Ghost in the Invisible Bikini (1966).
This fourth entry has not always been considered a follow-up to the three films that preceded it. Several sources have noted, however, that while it is not a proper sequel, it is indeed a part of what is now termed AIP's ‘Beach Party series.’ Moreover, AIP marketed it as a sequel in its trailer, stating "The Bikini Beach Party Gang is Warming Up! – For the 'Party' that Takes Off – Where others Poop Out!" and "All the 'Beach Party' Fun ... in Pajamas!"
Additional links that tie this film to the others are the return of Eric von Zipper and his Rat Pack (who previously appeared in Beach Party and Bikini Beach) and the return of Candy Johnson as Candy for the fourth time in as many films.
Regulars Frankie Avalon, Don Rickles, Annette Funicello, Jody McCrea and Donna Loren all appear (albeit with character name changes – not the first time this happens in the series, nor the last); Susan Hart makes the first of three appearances in the AIP brand of the genre; Buster Keaton makes the first of four appearances, and Bobbi Shaw makes the first appearance of five. In addition, several background players in this film (Patti Chandler, Mary Hughes, Johnny Fain, Mike Nader, Salli Sachse, Luree Holmes, Ronnie Dayton, Ed Garner, Ray Atkinson, Linda Benson, and Laura Nicholson) also appear in three or more films in the AIP brand of the genre.
The film is not to be confused with the 1963 novel Pajama Party about lesbian activities among college girls, which was banned on the grounds of obscenity.


== Plot ==
A teen-aged intelligence officer from the planet Mars named Go Go (Tommy Kirk) is ordered to Earth to prepare the way for a Martian invasion. Right from the start, he encounters problems. The power-pack he wears on his back malfunctions and he is suspended several feet above ground. However, he is saved by the first Earthling he meets, Aunt Wendy (Elsa Lanchester), an eccentric widow with problems of her own. Her shady neighbor, J. Sinister Hulk (Jesse White) and his associates, Chief Rotten Eagle (Buster Keaton) and his Swedish sex-bomb partner Helga (Bobbi Shaw), are scheming to separate Aunt Wendy from her million-dollar inheritance.
A subplot involves a motorcycle gang led by Eric von Zipper (Harvey Lembeck), a leather-jacketed, middle-aged delinquent with an irrational hatred for buxom beach-babes and their surfer-dude boyfriends. One such character, Connie (Annette Funicello), has a crush on a volleyball nut named Big Lunk (Jody McCrea). Inexplicably, he responds with disinterest. So Connie transmits a few subtle signals toward Go Go, and he gets the message. But later, when she discovers Go Go is a hostile Martian scout, she calls the whole thing off.
In the meantime, Go Go teleports a squad of Martians from the Red Planet, but he is emotionally depressed by the absence of Connie. At a climactic pajama party, he thus turns informer and prevents Earth from being overrun. He is reunited with Connie, and the world is made safe.


== Cast ==


== Production notes ==
Famed animator Joseph Barbera wrote a romantic comedy play which debuted on stage in Los Angeles in 1952 called The Maid and the Martian. It was about Captain Derro, a scout from Mars, who goes to Earth to help plan an invasion, but falls in love with a girl from Earth. The Los Angeles Times said the play "has strong elements and might even go to Broadway... provided it gains more completeness in plot and situation." The production was directed by Gordon Hunt  and starred Pat Priest (who would later become a regular on TV's The Munsters). It ran successfully for seven weeks