Sabal palmetto (, SAY-bəl), also known as cabbage palm, cabbage palmetto, sabal palm, blue palmetto, Carolina palmetto, common palmetto, Garfield's tree, and swamp cabbage, is one of 15 species of palmetto palm.
It is native to the far Southeast United States, the Yucatán Peninsula in Mexico, the West Indies, and the Bahamas.


== Description ==
Sabal palmetto grows up to 20 m (80 ft) tall. Starting at half to two-thirds the height, the tree develops into a rounded, costapalmate fan of numerous leaflets. A costapalmate leaf has a definite costa (midrib), unlike the typical palmate or fan leaf, but the leaflets are arranged radially like in a palmate leaf. All costapalmate leaves are about 5 mm (1⁄4 in) across, produced in large compound panicles up to 2.5 m (8 ft) in radius, extending out beyond the leaves. The fruit is a black drupe about 1.3 cm (1⁄2 in) long containing a single seed. It is extremely salt-tolerant and is often seen growing on the coastal plain and along the coast of the Atlantic Ocean and the Gulf of Mexico.

		
			
			
		
		
			
			
		
		
			
			
		
		
			
			
		
		
			
			
		
		
			
			
		
		
			
			
		
		
			
			
		
		
			
			
		


=== Sabal palmetto "Lisa" ===


== Distribution and habitat ==
Sabal palmetto is native to the subtropical coastal regions of the American states of Florida, Georgia, South Carolina, southeastern North Carolina, and extreme southern Texas. It is also cultivated elsewhere in the Southeastern US, in some areas of southeastern Virginia, southwestern Alabama, and southeastern Mississippi. It can also be found alongside Cuba's northern coast (from Havana to Matanzas), the Turks and Caicos, the Yucatán Peninsula in Mexico, and the Bahamas.
The species is hardy to the US Department of Agriculture's zone 8a, and has been reported to have some cold hardness down to 8.6 °F or −13.0 °C, but needs hot and humid summers to grow well. Maintenance of the cabbage palm tree is very easy and very adaptable. The cabbage palmetto is known to tolerate drought, standing water and brackish water. Even though this palm is drought-tolerant, it thrives on regular light watering and regular feeding. It is highly tolerant of salt winds, but not saltwater flooding.


== Cultivation ==

Sabal palmetto is a popular landscape plant in the subtropical climates of the Gulf and south Atlantic states, mostly from southeast Virginia to coastal Texas. Sabal palm is used extensively around beach and resort areas along the lower East Coast because of its tolerance of salt spray and drought. Because of their relatively long establishment period and prevalence on southern ranchlands, few, if any are grown from seed in nurseries. Instead, established plants are dug in the wild with small rootballs since virtually all the severed roots die and must be replaced by new roots in the new location. Most leaves are removed at this time to reduce transpiration. Cabbage palms have excellent hurricane resistance, but are frequently overpruned. Sabal palms normally only do well in hot and humid summer climates.
Most references rate the species as hardy to USDA hardiness zone 8a. A small number of specimens are cultivated beyond the typical regions sabal is known to be cultivated in, including parts of Tennessee, northern Virginia, and along the middle Atlantic coast from Maryland to coastal New Jersey and coastal Connecticut. A long term protected specimen (covered with frost cloth) grows in favorable microclimate (zone 7a/b) in Bridgeport CT since 2009. 
The cabbage palm is remarkably resistant to fire, floods, coastal conditions, cold, high winds, and drought. Despite this, recent mortality has been caused by Texas phoenix palm decline, a phytoplasma currently found on the west coast of Florida.
Sabal palmetto trunks appear in two different conditions, which can be confusing (see photo). When leaves die, the leaf bases typically persist for a while, creating a spiky, "basketweave" effect. These remnant leaf bases are called "boot