Paris, Texas is a 1984 neo-Western drama road film directed by Wim Wenders, co-written by Sam Shepard and L. M. Kit Carson, and produced by Don Guest. It stars Harry Dean Stanton, Nastassja Kinski, Dean Stockwell, Aurore Clément, and Hunter Carson. In the film, disheveled recluse Travis Henderson (Stanton) reunites with his brother Walt (Stockwell) and son Hunter (Carson). Travis and Hunter embark on a trip through the American Southwest to track down Travis's missing wife, Jane (Kinski).
The film is a co-production between companies in France and West Germany, but it is English-spoken and was filmed primarily in West Texas, which also serves as its major setting. Cinematography was handled by Robby Müller, while the musical score was composed by Ry Cooder.
At the 1984 Cannes Film Festival, it won the Palme d'Or from the official jury, as well as the FIPRESCI Prize and the Prize of the Ecumenical Jury. It went on to other honors and widespread critical acclaim praising mainly direction, acting, cinematography, emotional resonance and musical score.


== Plot ==
Travis Henderson is wandering through the West Texas desert, bewildered and holding an empty gallon water jug. He wanders into a convenience store, opens a freezer, and starts eating ice before losing consciousness. A doctor examines Travis and discovers that he is mute. The doctor goes through Travis's wallet and finds a card with a phone number on it. He calls the number, which belongs to Walt Henderson, Travis's brother.
Walt travels from Los Angeles to Terlingua, Texas, to pick up Travis, whom he had presumed was dead after not hearing from him for four years. Walt's wife, Anne, is worried since she and Walt had adopted Travis's son, Hunter, as Hunter's biological mother, Jane, had been out of his life for years. Walt finds Travis wandering miles down the road from the clinic.
The brothers begin their road trip back to Los Angeles. Walt grows increasingly frustrated with Travis's muteness and confronts him about his disappearance and abandonment of Hunter. At the mention of Hunter, Travis begins to cry but still does not speak. The following day, Travis finally begins to speak and produces a photo of a plot of land, explaining that he purchased a property in Paris, Texas.
The brothers arrive in Los Angeles, where Walt and Anne own a house in the Verdugo Hills overlooking the Burbank Airport. There Travis is reunited with Hunter who has little recollection of his father and is initially timid around him. Walt shows Hunter old home videos of them and Jane, and, after persistence by Travis, Hunter grows comfortable around his father. Anne tells Travis in confidence that Jane deposits monthly payments into a bank account for Hunter, and that the bank is in Houston. Travis becomes determined to find Jane and tells Hunter that he must leave the following night. Hunter tells Travis that he wants to accompany him, though they do not have Walt's and Anne's permission.
Travis and Hunter embark on a road trip to Houston, with the two of them bonding and growing closer. They arrive at the bank on the day of the expected deposit and plan to locate Jane's car. Hunter spots Jane making a drive-in deposit, and they follow her car to a peep show club where she works. Travis goes inside while Hunter waits in the car. The peep show is designed so that customers sit on one side of a one-way mirror with a telephone intercom to the performer. When Jane enters the room, Travis is unable to speak and soon leaves without saying more than a few words to her. Travis is angry, drives to a bar, and drinks while Hunter complains.
The following day, Travis leaves Hunter at a hotel and goes to Jane's workplace. In Jane's room, he turns his chair so it faces away from her. On the phone, he tells her a vague story about a man and a younger woman who met, quickly fell in love with each other, got married, and had a child. Jane is initially confused but soon realizes that it is Travis. He tells her th