Patriot Games is a thriller novel, written by Tom Clancy and published in July 1987. Without Remorse, released six years later, is an indirect prequel, and it is chronologically the first book featuring Jack Ryan, the main character in most of Clancy's novels. The novel focuses on Ryan being the target of Irish terrorist group Ulster Liberation Army for thwarting their kidnapping attempt on the Prince and Princess of Wales in London. It debuted at number one on the New York Times bestseller list. A film adaptation, starring Harrison Ford as Ryan, premiered on June 5, 1992.


== Plot summary ==
An attempt to kidnap the Prince and Princess of Wales and their infant son occurs on the Mall in London. The attack is orchestrated by the Ulster Liberation Army, a splinter group of the Provisional Irish Republican Army. However, Jack Ryan intervenes, incapacitating one attacker, Sean Miller. During the gun battle, Ryan is wounded by John Michael McCrory as they exchange gunfire. McCrory is killed and Miller is arrested.
While recovering, Ryan is honored by the British government and is knighted. Meanwhile, Miller is sentenced to life imprisonment for the kidnapping attempt; however, his ULA compatriots led by Kevin O’Donnell free him while he is being transported to a maximum security prison. Their Libyan allies aid them in escaping to their secret camp in the North African desert; Miller vows revenge on Ryan.
Ryan returns to teach history at the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland, confident that the ULA will not attack him in the United States. Unbeknownst to him, Miller had persuaded O’Donnell to launch an operation in the U.S. aimed at targeting Ryan and his family, and had recruited the assistance of an African-American domestic terrorist group known as “the Movement” to do so. Though primarily for revenge, the operation is also designed to reduce American support for the rival PIRA, which is to be blamed for the upcoming attack. The assassin sent to kill Ryan is intercepted before he completes his task, however his wife, Cathy, and daughter, Sally, are seriously injured when Miller causes their car to crash on a freeway; they are transported to the hospital for treatment.
After the attack on his family, Ryan returns to Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) as an analyst. Later, the Prince and Princess of Wales visit Ryan at the Ryan's Maryland home. However, this provides another opportunity for the ULA, once again recruiting the services of “the Movement”. They launch a sneak attack on the Ryan home to kidnap the Prince and Princess of Wales, as well as Ryan's family.
Although several guards around the house are killed, Ryan, his friend, Robert “Robby” Jackson, and the Prince dispatch several terrorists. The local police, the United States Marines, and U.S. Naval Academy sailors prevent the remaining terrorists from escaping the country. Ryan tries to kill a cornered Miller, but is restrained. After the ULA terrorists are apprehended, Ryan arrives in Annapolis for son, Jack Ryan, Jr.'s birth


== Characters ==
Jack Ryan: History teacher at the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland; later an analyst for the Central Intelligence Agency.
Dr. Caroline "Cathy" Ryan: Ophthalmic surgeon at the Wilmer Eye Institute, which is part of the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine; Jack Ryan's wife.
Olivia "Sally" Ryan: Jack and Cathy Ryan's daughter.
Prince of Wales
Princess of Wales
Special Agent Daniel E. "Dan" Murray: Legal attaché for the FBI at the United States Embassy in London.
James "Jimmy" Owens: English police officer specializing in anti-terrorism operations.
Robby Jackson: Fighter pilot and instructor at the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland; Jack Ryan's friend.
Sean Miller: Operations officer for the Ulster Liberation Army (ULA).
Kevin Joseph O’Donnell: Leader of the ULA.
James Greer: CIA Deputy Director of Intelligence. Personally recruits Ryan into the agency.
Marty Cantor: Admiral Greer's