Peter Paul "Paulie Walnuts" Gualtieri is a fictional character portrayed by Tony Sirico on the HBO series The Sopranos, one of the chief henchmen of series protagonist Tony Soprano. Sirico originally auditioned for the role of Uncle Junior with Frank Vincent, but Dominic Chianese landed the role. David Chase instead offered him the role of playing Paulie Gualtieri, Sirico agreed under the condition that his character would not "become a rat". Paulie begins the series as a soldier, later becoming a caporegime in the DiMeo crime family. He is violent, impulsive, and paranoid. Billy Magnussen portrays a young Paulie Gualtieri in the 2021 prequel film, The Many Saints of Newark. Paulie Walnuts is widely considered to be one of the most beloved and iconic characters from The Sopranos, with Sirico's performance receiving acclaim from critics and audiences.


== Background ==
According to The Sopranos: A Family History, Peter Paul "Paulie" Gualtieri, son of Gennaro Gualtieri (although Paulie's biological father was later revealed to be a World War II soldier named "Russ"), had been a troubled street kid in Roseville, Newark from the age of nine. He dropped out of school after the ninth grade and spent time in and out of juvenile correctional facilities during his early youth. When he was seventeen, he officially became an enforcer/bodyguard for Johnny Soprano. He later moved to West Orange, New Jersey as an adult.
Paulie's presumed father was a captain in the DiMeo crime family. His mother, later discovered to be his biological aunt, worked at a Kresge's department store during Paulie's childhood and early adulthood, but has since retired. Paulie's grandfather, who emigrated to the United States in 1910, is from Ariano, a municipality in the province of Avellino, in Italy's Campania region. Paulie's grandfather and Tony's paternal grandparents were from the same province in Italy.
Paulie spent four years in the U.S. Army Signal Corps, where he was eventually drummed out through Section 8 (discharged because of psychiatric reasons). Afterward, he spent more time in and out of prison on various criminal charges. He eventually was inducted into the DiMeo crime family, becoming a close associate of Johnny Soprano and helping to mentor his son Tony.
His surname is taken from real-life DeCavalcante crime family mobster Frank Gualtieri, who served under Vincent Palermo. In the episode "From Where to Eternity", Paulie mentions to his parish priest after visiting a psychic that he had been donating to the parish for 23 years, meaning he had started donating in 1977. He helped pay for refurbishing his church's organ and paid for the new altar boy robes. He tells the priest he will stop contributing financially to the church following his incident with the psychic saying that he should have been protected.
Paulie is one of the show's most colorful characters, often cracking jokes or spouting bizarre sentiments. He is self-centered, opinionated, does not show much empathy, and can be paranoid at times. One of the older active gangsters in the family, Paulie adheres to traditional mob customs and ultimately shows loyalty and deference to his boss Tony. Other character traits include his competitiveness, miserly nature, germaphobia, and indifference to violence.
Despite his seniority and successful earning, Paulie is one of the more eccentric and reckless of Tony's associates and is arguably the most ruthless. In the first season finale, "I Dream of Jeannie Cusamano," Tony tells his crew that he had been in therapy for almost a year when Paulie reveals that he too had seen a therapist, from whom he "learned some coping skills." Nevertheless, despite his personality flaws, Paulie is recognized throughout the series as one of the top earners and one of Tony's most trusted friends in his "inner circle". Although he is shown to be dating a couple of different women during the series, Paulie has no children and mostly remains single, devoting almost hi