Penny Serenade is a 1941 American melodrama film directed by George Stevens starring Irene Dunne and Cary Grant as a loving couple who must overcome adversity to keep their marriage and raise a child. It was produced and distributed by Columbia Pictures. Grant was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actor for his performance.


== Plot ==

The film charts the meeting, courtship and marriage of Julie Gardiner (Irene Dunne) and Roger Adams (Cary Grant) through the playing of popular songs relevant to each time period. After their spur-of-the-moment marriage on New Year's Eve and a night in Roger's train compartment en route to San Francisco, a pregnant Julie rejoins Roger in Tokyo, where he has a stint as a reporter. Julie loses their unborn child in the 1923 Tokyo earthquake and returns with Roger to California. They are despondent until their friend Applejack Carney (Edgar Buchanan) encourages them to adopt a child. While Roger struggles to keep a newspaper going in the fictional California town of Rosalia, Julie keeps house and fits out the nursery.
They apply at an adoption agency for a two-year-old boy, and receive a call from Miss Oliver (Beulah Bondi) that a five-week-old baby girl is available. Though Roger would have preferred a boy, he falls in love with the baby, and he and Julie care for her during their one-year probation period. At the end of that time, Roger has lost the newspaper, and the law will not allow him to adopt the baby without an income. Roger appears before the judge and delivers an impassioned plea to keep the child, whom he considers his own. The judge awards custody, and Roger returns home to Julie with their daughter.
Years later, Roger and Julie swell with pride as their daughter, Trina, not yet old enough to play an angel in the Christmas play, plays the "echo" instead. The following Christmas, Julie writes to Miss Oliver that Trina has died from a sudden illness. The child's death sends Roger into a deep depression, and Julie resolves to leave him, believing he no longer needs her. Just as she is about to leave for the train station, the couple receive a phone call from Miss Oliver, saying that a two-year-old boy has just become available for adoption. Roger and Julie embrace, ready to rebuild their marriage with a new child.


== Cast ==
Irene Dunne as Julie Gardiner (Adams)
Cary Grant as Roger Adams
Beulah Bondi as Miss Oliver
Edgar Buchanan as Applejack Carney
Ann Doran as Dotty "Dot"
Eva Lee Kuney as Trina (age 6)
Leonard Willey as Doctor Hartley
Wallis Clark as Judge
Walter Soderling as Billings
Jane Biffle (listed as "Baby Biffle" in end-credits) as Trina (age 1)


== Production ==


=== Development ===
For $25,000, Columbia Pictures purchased the rights to a story by Martha Cheavens published in McCall's and engaged Cheavens as script consultant. Morrie Ryskind was credited for the screenplay.
The film depicts the passage of time through the playing of songs. According to George Stevens' papers stored at the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences library, Stevens kept close track of the chronology of the songs to accurately match them to the different time periods in the script. These songs include "The Japanese Sandman", "These Foolish Things", "Just a Memory", "Three O'Clock in the Morning", "Ain't We Got Fun", and "The Prisoner's Song".


=== Casting ===
Penny Serenade is the third of three films pairing Grant and Dunne, each time playing a married couple.
At the time, California law restricted the time an infant could be present in a film studio to two hours per day; during that time, the infant could be kept on a sound stage for only one hour, and be filmed under the studio lights for only twenty minutes at a time. To double the amount of time he could film the character of Trina both as a baby and as a one-year-old, Stevens hired identical twin girls for Trina at each age. The baby was played by Judith and Dianna Fleetwood, and the one-year-old by Joan and Jane Biffle.


=