A Perfect Murder is a 1998 American crime thriller film directed by Andrew Davis and starring Michael Douglas, Gwyneth Paltrow, and Viggo Mortensen. It is a remake of Alfred Hitchcock's 1954 film Dial M for Murder, though the characters' names have been changed and much of the plot has been rewritten and altered from its original form. Loosely based on the play by Frederick Knott, the screenplay was written by Patrick Smith Kelly.


== Plot ==
Wall Street financier Steven Taylor is married to the much younger Emily. When his risky personal investments start unraveling, he intends to access Emily's $100 million fortune to cover his losses. Meanwhile, Emily considers leaving Steven while having an affair with artist David Shaw. Steven arrives at David's studio the next day. He reveals that he knows about the affair and has uncovered David's real identity as Winston Lagrange, an ex-convict who cons rich women. Steven pressures David into murdering Emily for $500,000.
Steven takes Emily's housekey and hides it outside the service entrance to their lavish Manhattan co-op apartment. David is to use the key to enter the apartment, kill her, and make it look like a robbery. At his weekly card game, Steven takes a break and uses his cellphone to make a call to an automated bank system, adding to his alibi, while using a second phone to call Emily. Emily answers in the kitchen and is attacked by a masked assailant, but stabs him in the neck with a meat thermometer. Steven returns expecting Emily to be dead, but finds the assailant's body. He takes the key from the body, puts it back on Emily's keychain then damages the service entrance door and plants a screwdriver on the assailant. Police arrive, led by Detective Moe Karaman. They remove the assailant's mask, the body is not David's.
Still losing money, Steven receives a call from David, who plays an audio tape of the two discussing the plan to kill Emily. They agree to meet at a local deli, where David demands the full $500,000 or he will turn Steven in.
After realizing the key on her keychain belongs to the assailant, Emily confronts Steven. He responds with evidence of Emily's affair with David and accuses him of blackmailing them. When he saw the dead body in their kitchen, he claims he assumed it was David and took the key from his pocket so as not to implicate Emily. He urges her not to call the police.
After exchanging the money with David, Steven kills him, taking David's gun and the money. A dying David laughs, revealing he mailed a copy of the tape to Emily via courier service. Steven rushes home and finds the mail still unopened. He hides the money, gun and audio tape in his safe before Emily enters the room. She reveals that she knows everything, having found the tape in the safe while he showered. When she turns to leave, Steven attacks her. A brief fight ensues, ending when Emily uses David's gun from the safe to shoot and kill Steven.


== Cast ==
Michael Douglas as Steven Taylor
Gwyneth Paltrow as Emily Bradford Taylor
Viggo Mortensen as David Shaw
David Suchet as Detective Mohamed "Moe" Karaman
Sarita Choudhury as Raquel Martinez
Constance Towers as Sandra Bradford
Novella Nelson as Ambassador Alice Wills
Michael P. Moran as Bobby Fain
Gerry Becker as Roger Brill
Will Lyman as Jason Gates
David Eigenberg as Stein


== Comparisons to the original film ==

In Hitchcock's Dial M For Murder, the characters played by Ray Milland and Grace Kelly are depicted as living in a modest London flat, although it is implied that they are quite wealthy, as Milland's character, Tony Wendice, is a retired tennis champion. Michael Douglas and Gwyneth Paltrow's characters are also shown as an extremely wealthy couple.  Both Kelly and Paltrow's characters are shown as striking blondes.  Both films make use of the mystery of the fact that no key was found on the dead man when he was killed by both Kelly and Paltrow's characters, as both their husbands had removed them in an attempt to pin t