Persuasion or persuasion arts is an umbrella term for influence. Persuasion can influence a person's beliefs, attitudes, intentions, motivations, or behaviours.
Persuasion is studied in many disciplines. Rhetoric studies modes of persuasion in speech and writing and is often taught as a classical subject.: 46  Psychology looks at persuasion through the lens of individual behaviour and neuroscience studies the brain activity associated with this behaviour. History and political science are interested in the role of propaganda in shaping historical events. In business, persuasion is aimed at influencing a person's (or group's) attitude or behaviour towards some event, idea, object, or another person (s) by using written, spoken, or visual methods to convey information, feelings, or reasoning, or a combination thereof. Persuasion is also often used to pursue personal gain, such as election campaigning, giving a sales pitch,  or in trial advocacy. Persuasion can also be interpreted as using personal or positional resources to change people.


== Forms ==
Propaganda is a form of persuasion used to indoctrinate a population towards an individual or a particular agenda.: 7 
Coercion is a form of persuasion that uses aggressive threats and the provocation of fear and/or shame to influence a person's behavior.: 37 
Systematic persuasion is the process through which attitudes or beliefs are leveraged by appeals to logic and reason.
Heuristic persuasion, on the other hand, is the process through which attitudes or beliefs are leveraged by appeals to habit or emotion.


== History and philosophy ==

The academic study of persuasion began with the Greeks, who emphasized rhetoric and elocution as the highest standard for a successful politician. All trials were held in front of the Assembly, and the likelihood of success of the prosecution versus the defense rested on the persuasiveness of the speaker.  Rhetoric is the art of effective persuasive speaking, often through the use of figures of speech, metaphors, and other techniques.
The Greek philosopher Aristotle listed four reasons why one should learn the art of persuasion:

Truth and justice are perfect; thus if a case loses, it is the fault of the speaker.
It is an excellent tool for teaching.
A good rhetorician must be able to argue both sides to understand the whole problem, and
There is no better way to defend one's self.
He described three fundamental ways to communicate persuasively:

Ethos (credibility): refers to the effort to convince your audience of your credibility or character. It is not automatic and can be created through actions, deeds, understanding, or expertise by the speaker.
Logos (reason): refers to the effort to convince your audience by using logic and reason. This can be formal and non-formal. Formal reasoning uses syllogisms, arguments where two statements validly imply a third statement. Non-formal reasoning uses enthymemes, arguments that have valid reasoning but are informal and assume the audience has prior knowledge.
Pathos (emotion): refers to the effort to persuade your audience by making an appeal to their feelings.


=== Ethics of persuasion ===

Many philosophers have commented on the morality of persuasion. Socrates argued that rhetoric was based on appearances rather than the essence of a matter.: 22  Thomas Hobbes was critical of use rhetoric to create controversy, particularly the use of metaphor.: 28  Immanuel Kant was critical of rhetoric, arguing that it could cause people to reach conclusions that are at odds with those that they would have reached if they had applied their full judgment. He draws parallels between the function of rhetoric and the deterministic function of the mind like a machine.: 88 
Aristotle was critical of persuasion, though argued that judges would often allow themselves to be persuaded by choosing to apply emotions rather than reason.: 122  However, he argued that persuasion could be used to induce an individual to apply