Pet Sematary is a 1983 horror novel by American writer Stephen King. The novel was nominated for a World Fantasy Award for Best Novel in 1984, and adapted into two films: one in 1989 and another in 2019. In November 2013, PS Publishing released Pet Sematary in a limited 30th-anniversary edition.


== Plot ==
Louis Creed, a doctor from Chicago, is appointed director of the University of Maine's campus health service. He moves to a house near the town of Ludlow with his wife Rachel, their two young children, Ellie and Gage, and Ellie's cat, Winston Churchill ("Church"). Their elderly neighbor, Jud Crandall, warns Louis and Rachel about the highway that runs past their house, which is frequented by speeding trucks.
Jud and Louis become close friends, with Louis viewing Jud as a surrogate father. Jud takes the family on a walk in the woods behind their home. A well-tended path leads to a pet cemetery (misspelled "sematary" on the sign), where the children of the town bury their deceased animals. 
Victor Pascow, a student fatally injured in an automobile accident, addresses his dying words to Louis personally, though they are strangers. On the night following Pascow's death, Louis dreams that he meets Pascow's ghost, who leads him to the deadfall at the back of the "sematary" and warns him not to go beyond that point. Louis wakes up in bed the next morning to find his feet and bedsheets covered with dried mud and pine needles. 
Ellie's cat, Church, is run over around Thanksgiving. Rachel and the children are visiting Rachel's parents in Chicago, and Louis frets over breaking the bad news to Ellie. Jud takes him to the "sematary", supposedly to bury Church. Instead of stopping there, Jud leads Louis farther on to "the real cemetery": an ancient burial ground that was once used by the Mi'kmaq. Louis buries the cat on Jud's instruction. The next afternoon, Church returns home; the usually vibrant and lively cat now acts ornery and, in Louis's words, "a little dead". Church hunts for mice and birds, ripping them apart without eating them. He also smells so bad that Ellie no longer wants him in her room at night. Jud confirms that Church has been resurrected and that Jud buried his dog there when he was younger. Louis, deeply disturbed, begins to wish that he had not buried Church there.
Several months later, two-year-old Gage is killed by a speeding truck. Overcome with despair, Louis considers bringing his son back to life with the help of the burial ground. Jud attempts to dissuade him by telling him the story of Timmy Baterman, the last person resurrected by the burial ground. After being killed in action during World War II, Timmy's body was shipped back to the United States, and his father Bill buried Timmy in the burial ground. Timmy returned malevolent, terrorizing the people of the town with secrets that Jud asserts he had no way of knowing. Timmy was stopped by Bill, who killed Timmy and set their house on fire before shooting himself. Jud believes that whatever came back was not Timmy, but a "demon" that had possessed his corpse. He concludes that "sometimes, dead is better" and states that "the place has a power... its own evil purpose", and that it may have caused Gage's death because Jud introduced Louis to it.
Despite Jud's warning and his own reservations, Louis's grief and guilt spur him to exhume Gage's body from his grave and inter him in the burial ground. Now malicious in both his words and actions, the resurrected Gage finds one of Louis's scalpels and kills Jud and Rachel. Louis kills Church and Gage with lethal injections of morphine.
Louis, driven insane by grief, burns the Crandall house down before returning to the burial ground with his wife's corpse, thinking that if he buries the body faster than he did Gage's, there will be a different result. One of his colleagues, Steve Masterton, notices him walking into the woods with Rachel's body. Steve, while fearful and concerned, is influenced by the power of the 