Shahid Khan (Urdu: شاهد خان; born 1 January 1981), better known by his stage name Naughty Boy, is a Pakistani English musician, DJ, songwriter and record producer. In 2012, Khan signed a three–year publishing deal with Sony ATV, as well as a recording contract to release one album under Virgin EMI Records. Khan launched himself as a record producer under the moniker "Naughty Boy" and runs his own production company called Naughty Boy Recordings.
He has produced two records for rappers Chipmunk and Wiley, both featuring Emeli Sandé. Naughty Boy and Sandé later formed a writing and production partnership, leading to Sandé landing her own record deal with Virgin and EMI. Sandé went on to be named the Critics Choice for the 2012 BRIT Awards, and release her debut album Our Version of Events (2012), a record co-written and produced with Naughty Boy. Khan spent 2011 and 2012 working on records for Leona Lewis, JLS, Cheryl, Jennifer Hudson, Alesha Dixon and Tinie Tempah, among others.
In 2013, Naughty Boy released his debut album Hotel Cabana. The set features prominent collaborator Sandé, as well as Ed Sheeran, Gabrielle and others. It was preceded by the release of the top-ten single "Wonder" (featuring Sandé), the number one hit "La La La", featuring Sam Smith, and "Lifted", another collaboration with Sandé. His debut album peaked at number two in the UK.
On 19 October 2013, Naughty Boy's "La La La" was awarded 'Best Song' and 'Best Video' at the MOBO Awards' 18th Anniversary.


== Early life ==
Shahid Khan was born on 1 January 1981 in Watford, Hertfordshire. His parents being originally from Pakistan, and explaining the importance of his Pakistani identity, having also been in a school near Rawalpindi for two years, he says that he grew up listening to Pakistani music and watching Pakistani movies more than being influenced by Western culture, admiring the likes of Sultan Rahi and Mustafa Qureshi, ultimately professing that "I am a very proud Pakistani and I celebrate that". Educated at Westfield Academy, Watford, initially, Khan was studying Business and Marketing at London Guildhall University (now London Metropolitan University), but during his first semester, he decided to drop out and did various part-time jobs in Domino's Pizza and Watford General Hospital. He won £44,000 on Deal or No Deal and spent the money on a studio in his parents' garden, as well as giving his parents £15,000 and buying an Audi sports car. He "decided to follow his ambition to write and produce his own music, under the name Naughty Boy Recordings." In the background, Khan was recording songs in his parents' garden shed in Charlock Way in Watford, Hertfordshire. The finances allowed Khan to upscale production from the garden shed to a studio in Ealing, West London. Eventually, he got a three-year contract with Sony ATV, and a one-album record deal with Virgin Records (EMI Records).
Khan applied to The Prince's Trust in 2005, where he was awarded a grant of £5,000 to help start up his business. Speaking to the Watford Observer in 2009 about the opportunity, Khan said "The Prince's Trust has a scheme where they want to help people who they feel can set up their own business. I wanted to make music but I didn't have any equipment. They said they wanted to help me." That same year, Khan appeared on Channel 4's hit day-time gameshow Deal or No Deal, where he won £44,000, further enabling him to purchase equipment and begin recording. The producer now bases his recordings at his studio in Ealing, West London.


== Music career ==


=== 2009–2012: Beginnings and producing ===

The producer burst on to the music scene in 2009, by co-writing and producing Chipmunk's hit single "Diamond Rings", featuring Emeli Sandé. Khan would once again work with Sandé, this time on Wiley's "Never Be Your Woman" (2010), a cover of White Town's "Your Woman" (1997). Sandé later earned a record deal with Virgin Records, with Khan co-writing and producing her debut album, Our Ve