Pink Floyd The Wall is a 1982 British live action/adult animated surrealist musical drama film directed by Alan Parker, based on Pink Floyd's 1979 album The Wall. The screenplay was written by Pink Floyd vocalist and bassist Roger Waters. The Boomtown Rats vocalist Bob Geldof made his film debut as rock star Pink, who, driven to neurosis by the pressures of stardom and traumatic events in his life, constructs an emotional and mental wall to protect himself. However, this coping mechanism eventually backfires, and Pink demands to be set free.
Like its associated album, the film is highly metaphorical, and frequently uses both visual and auditory symbols throughout its runtime. It features little dialogue, instead being driven by the music from the album throughout. The songs used in the film have several differences from their album versions, and one of the songs included, "When the Tigers Broke Free", does not appear on the album. Despite its turbulent production, the film received generally positive reviews and has an established cult following amongst Pink Floyd fans.


== Plot ==
Pink is a depressed rock star who appears motionless and expressionless while remembering his father. Decades prior, his father was killed defending the Anzio beachhead during World War II in Pink's infancy, leaving Pink's paranoid mother to raise him alone. A young Pink discovers relics from his father's military service and death. An animation depicts the war, showing that the death of the people was for nothing. Pink places a bullet on the track of an oncoming train within a tunnel, and the train that passes has children peering out of the windows wearing face masks.
At school, he is caught writing poems and is humiliated by the teacher, who reads a poem from Pink's book before disciplining him. However, it is revealed that the poor treatment of the students is because of the unhappiness of the teacher's strained marriage. Pink recalls an oppressive school system, imagining children falling into a meat grinder. He fantasizes about the children rising in rebellion and burning down the school before throwing the teacher onto a bonfire. 
As an adult, Pink remembers his overprotective mother and his strained marriage. During a phone call, Pink realizes that his wife is cheating on him when a man answers the phone. His traumatic experiences are represented as "bricks" in the wall he constructs around himself that emotionally divides him from society.
Pink returns to the hotel room with a groupie, only for him to destroy the room in a fit of violence, scaring her away. Depressed, he thinks about his wife and feels trapped in his room. He then remembers every "brick" of his wall, as it is shown to be finally complete, and the film returns to the first scene.
Now trapped inside his wall, Pink does not leave his hotel room and begins to lose his mind to metaphorical "worms". He shaves all his body hair and watches television, particularly the 1955 film The Dam Busters. The young Pink searches through the trenches of the war, eventually finding himself as an adult. Young Pink runs away in terror and appears at a railway station, with the soldiers being reunited with their loved ones. After failing to find his father, the people demand that the soldiers return home. Returning to the present, Pink's manager finds him in his hotel room, completely unresponsive, and has a paramedic inject him with drugs to enable him to perform.
In this drugged-out state, Pink hallucinates himself as a fascist dictator, and his concert as a Neo-Nazi rally. His followers attack blacks, gays, and Jews. He then holds a rally in London, and imagines marching hammers goose-stepping across ruins. Pink stops hallucinating and screams, "Stop!", deciding he no longer wants to be trapped behind the wall. He cowers in a bathroom stall, quietly singing to himself as a security guard walks past him. As an animated rag doll, Pink puts himself on trial for "showing feelings of an almost hum