Kingdom of the Planet of the Apes is a 2024 American science fiction action film directed by Wes Ball and written by Josh Friedman. A standalone sequel to War for the Planet of the Apes (2017), it is the fourth installment in the Planet of the Apes reboot franchise and the tenth film overall. It stars Owen Teague in the lead role alongside Freya Allan, Kevin Durand, Peter Macon, and William H. Macy. The film takes place 300 years after the events of War and follows a young chimpanzee named Noa, who embarks on a journey alongside a human woman named Mae to determine the future for apes and humans alike.
Development on a new Planet of the Apes film began in April 2019, following Disney's acquisition of 20th Century Fox, with Ball attached as writer and director that December. Much of the script was written during the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, with casting commencing in June 2022, following the script's completion. Teague was cast in the lead role that August, with the film's title and additional casting announced in the following months. Principal photography began in October 2022 in Sydney and wrapped in February 2023.
Kingdom of the Planet of the Apes premiered at the TCL Chinese Theatre in Los Angeles on May 2, 2024, and was released by 20th Century Studios in the United States on May 10. The film received generally positive reviews from critics and has grossed over $337 million worldwide, becoming the sixth-highest-grossing film of 2024.


== Plot ==
Many generations after Caesar's death, apes have established numerous clans, while most humans have become feral-esque. Noa, a young chimpanzee from a falconry-practicing clan, prepares for a coming-of-age ceremony by collecting eagle eggs with his friends Anaya and Soona. However, a human scavenger follows Noa home and inadvertently cracks his egg during a scuffle before fleeing. While searching for a replacement egg, Noa encounters a group of ape raiders using electric weapons. As Noa hides from them, the apes follow his horse back to his clan. Noa hurries home to find his village burning; the raider leader Sylva kills Noa's father before dropping Noa from a high platform.
Left for dead, Noa awakens, discovering that his clan has been abducted. He buries his father and sets out to rescue his clan. On his journey, he is joined by Raka, an orangutan who tells Noa about Caesar's teachings. The apes notice they are being followed by the human scavenger; Raka offers her food and a blanket, naming her Nova. When the trio encounters a group of feral humans, Sylva's raiders suddenly attack. Noa and Raka rescue Nova who, to their surprise, can speak. She reveals that her name is Mae and that the raiders took Noa's clan to a beachfront settlement outside an old human vault. As they cross a bridge on their way to the settlement, they are ambushed by Sylva. In the ensuing fight, Raka saves Mae from drowning but is swept away by the rapids. Noa and Mae are captured and taken to the apes' settlement.
Noa reunites with his clan and is introduced to the apes' self-proclaimed king, Proximus Caesar. Proximus has enslaved other clans, forcing them to work on opening the vault so he can access the human technology locked inside. Proximus invites Noa to dinner along with Mae and Trevathan, a human prisoner who is teaching Proximus about the old human world. Proximus believes that Noa's intelligence could help open the vault and warns him that Mae only has her own agenda. Noa confronts Mae, demanding the truth in exchange for his help. Mae discloses knowledge of a hidden entrance to the vault and says that a mysterious "book" capable of restoring speech to humanity is inside. Noa agrees to help her enter the vault, hoping to destroy Proximus' settlement and lead his clan back home. Noa, Mae, Soona, and Anaya secretly plant explosives around the levee that surrounds the settlement. Trevathan catches them and intends to warn Proximus, but Mae kills him.
The group enters the vault, which is a militar