The Players Club is a 1998 American dark comedy drama thriller film written and directed by Ice Cube in his feature film directorial debut. In addition to Ice Cube, the film stars Bernie Mac, Monica Calhoun, Jamie Foxx, John Amos, A. J. Johnson, Alex Thomas, Charlie Murphy, Terrence Howard, Faizon Love and LisaRaye McCoy in her first starring role.


== Plot ==
Diana Armstrong gazes at the ruins of the Players Club, a strip club where she used to work. She begins reminiscing about the time she moved out of her parents' home with hopes of attending college. On her own, Diana finds a job at a shoe store, where she meets Ronnie and Tricks, who work for Dollar Bill at the Players Club. They convince Diana she would make better money stripping. Dollar Bill gives Diana a job and the name "Diamond." Four years later, her younger cousin Ebony comes to live with her and also starts working at the club. Ebony is soon out of control, drinking excessively, staying out all night, and stripping at private house parties.
Several scenes depict episodes in the life of the club: A visit from a famous rapper ends in a fistfight. Diamond deals with a stalker, Miron. And she angrily kicks Ebony out of her house after catching her in bed with Diamond's boyfriend.
Dollar Bill is confronted by a man who works for St. Louis, a drug lord and loan shark to whom Dollar Bill owes $60,000. He warns Dollar Bill if he doesn't make a payment of $10,000 to St. Louis, he will hunt him down. The next day as Dollar Bill tries to leave the club, St. Louis' men beat Dollar unconscious and throw him into the trunk of his car. They are stopped by two crooked cops. Dollar Bill is found in the trunk and arrested on warrants. He is later bailed out and returns to the club. 
Ebony is offered a gig to dance at Ronnie's brother Junior's bachelor party. While Ronnie is outside smoking, Reggie tricks Junior into raping Ebony by saying that him and Clyde had ran a train on her weeks ago, but was spoiled by Diamond. Junior goes into Ebony's room while she is changing and against Ebony's pleas, Junior turns off the lights and violently beats and rapes her while his friends listen to it in disgust. The guys decide to leave the party and end their friendship with Junior. Ronnie discovers Junior with Ebony, and both flee the scene leaving Ebony in the motel room. Diamond and Blue arrive and they discover an unconsicous and bloodied Ebony and they called 911. A furious Diamond then arrives at the Players Club and beats Ronnie up as punishment, avenging Ebony. Diamond then punches Tricks in the face and says one final insult to Dolla Bill and quits in front of him before she leaves with Blue.
Ronnie and Tricks are arrested by the police. That same night, St. Louis comes to collect and personally shoots up the club. As Dollar tries to escape, he is captured by St. Louis' henchmen. Later, St. Louis' associate Brooklyn destroys the club with a LAW rocket.
Ebony, still sporting the bruises from her rape, now has a job working at the shoe store. Ebony and Diana are back on good terms again. In voice-over, Diamond narrates the fates of the characters.


== Cast ==
LisaRaye McCoy as Diana "Diamond" Armstrong: A college student, single mom and aspiring journalist who gets a job at The Players Club to raise money for her college tuition.
Bernie Mac as Dollar Bill: the dim crooked owner of The Players Club who is threatened by a loan shark named St. Louis.
Monica Calhoun as Ebony Armstrong: Diamond's younger cousin who becomes out-of-control after getting a job at The Players Club.
A. J. Johnson as Lil' Man: the club's small-sized doorman who is frequently taunted and harmed by St. Louis and his crooks.
Ice Cube as Reggie: A henchman working for St. Louis.
Alex Thomas as Clyde: Reggie's best friend who, like Reggie, has a thirst towards Ebony and works for St. Louis.
Jamie Foxx as Blue: the club's radio disc jockey and Diamond's love interest.
John Amos as Officer Freeman: a crooked police of