Poison Ivy (Dr. Pamela Lillian Isley  EYEZ-lee) is a character appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. Created by writer Robert Kanigher and artist Carmine Infantino, she debuted in Batman #181 (June 1966), and has become one of the superhero Batman's most enduring enemies belonging to the collective of adversaries that make up his rogues gallery.
In her comic book appearances, Poison Ivy is depicted as a botanist-turned-misanthropic ecoterrorist in Gotham City with the ability to control all plant life. Empowered by an elemental force known as the Green, Ivy attempts to protect the sanctity and supremacy of nature at all costs by lashing out against humanity, which brings her into conflict with Batman. While usually portrayed as a supervillain, Ivy has also been an antiheroine at times as well as the primary love interest of Harley Quinn as of The New 52 and DC Rebirth relaunches. A one-piece costume adorned with leaves and vines serves as Poison Ivy's visual motif.
Poison Ivy has been adapted in various media incarnations, having been portrayed by Uma Thurman in the 1997 film Batman & Robin, Clare Foley, Maggie Geha and Peyton List in the Fox television series Gotham, and Bridget Regan in The CW's Arrowverse series Batwoman. Diane Pershing, Tasia Valenza, Lake Bell, Tara Strong, and others have provided the character's voice ranging from animation to video games.


== Publication history ==
Poison Ivy was created by Robert Kanigher and Carmine Infantino, the character first appeared in Batman #181 (June 1966). Infantino discussed how the character was created "The only reason she came about was because of Catwoman on the Batman show. They wanted more female villains. What was the other one I did.. the Silver Fox! And then Batgirl. That show, because of it we were selling a million copies a month. But that show, when it died, so did the comic books."
Poison Ivy's origin is depicted in Neil Gaiman's short story "Pavane" (Secret Origins #36, 1988), during which she declares herself to be nature's daughter and the world's rightful ruler; it is later revealed that her powers were gifted to her by the environmental force known as the Green. Ivy is considered extremely beautiful within the DC Universe, and is often presented as a temptress. She is typically depicted barefoot with long flowing hair, plant vines extending over her limbs, and a green one-piece suit adorned with leaves, with occasional variations to her skin tone.
Writer J. T. Krul, who helped further define Poison Ivy's personality, summed up her character with the following quote:

The thing I love most about Poison Ivy is her walking that line between bastion of Mother Nature and psycho Eco-terrorist. She sees herself as the hand of Mother Nature. If Mother Nature were "God," then Ivy would be her "Jesus." She defends the defenseless nature of the world and truly believes in her cause. Maiming, mauling, and mutilating are extreme measures, but it's nothing compared to what irredeemable cruelties humanity's done to the world of nature. Ivy always sees the greater good as she punishes those who deserve it.
After appearing in various DC Comics publications, Poison Ivy starred in her first solo comic book series with the 2016 miniseries Poison Ivy: Cycle of Life and Death. This was followed by the 2021 graphic novel Poison Ivy: Thorns, and the eponymously titled Poison Ivy, an ongoing comic book series first published in 2022. The character also co-starred in the miniseries Harley Quinn and Poison Ivy (2019–2020).


== Fictional character biography ==


=== Pre-Crisis ===
Dr. Pamela Lillian Isley, PhD is a promising botanist who is persuaded by Marc LeGrand into assisting him with the theft of an Egyptian artifact containing ancient herbs. Fearing she would implicate him in the theft, he attempts to poison her with the herbs, which are deadly and untraceable. She survives this murder attempt and discovers she has acquired an immunity to all natural tox