Poltergeist II: The Other Side (also known simply as Poltergeist II) is a 1986 American supernatural horror film directed by Brian Gibson. JoBeth Williams, Craig T. Nelson, Oliver Robins, Heather O'Rourke and Zelda Rubinstein reprised their roles from the first film. New cast members include Will Sampson, Julian Beck and Geraldine Fitzgerald. The second entry in the Poltergeist film series and a direct sequel to Poltergeist (1982), it follows the Freeling family who again finds themselves under attack from the supernatural forces led by "the Beast", revealed to be the spirit of an insane preacher who led an apocalyptic cult during the 19th century, attempting to claim their daughter. In their efforts to save their daughter, the family finds help in a Native American shaman.
Neither director Tobe Hooper nor producer Steven Spielberg returned for this film. Michael Grais and Mark Victor, who co-wrote the previous film with Spielberg, served as writer and producer here. Filming of Poltergeist II took place in California and Arizona in the spring of 1985. Most of the original cast members returned with the exception of Dominique Dunne, who was murdered shortly after the first film's release in 1982. The film marked the final appearance of Julian Beck, who died on September 14, 1985, as well as the last to be released during Heather O'Rourke's lifetime before her death in February 1988 just four months before her final appearance in the third Poltergeist film, Poltergeist III which was released in June that year. Surrealist artist H. R. Giger designed the creatures featured in the film.
Released in the spring of 1986, Poltergeist II: The Other Side was a financial success, earning nearly $75 million worldwide. Critical reviews were negative, but the film nevertheless followed its predecessor with a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Visual Effects, as well as two Saturn Awards.


== Plot ==
The film is set one year after the events of the first film. The Cuesta Verde neighborhood has been turned into an archaeological dig centered on the spot where the Freelings' home stood. The excavation leads to the discovery of a cave by a ground crew. Its existence is revealed to psychic Tangina Barrons, who informs her friend Taylor, a Native American shaman. After investigating the cave for himself, Taylor realizes that the spirit of Rev. Henry Kane, an insane preacher whom he has seen in dreams, is after Carol Anne and goes to defend her.
The Freeling family has relocated to Phoenix, Arizona, and now live in a house with Diane's mother, Jess. Grandma Jess is highly clairvoyant, and believes that Diane and Carol Anne possess the same abilities. Jess later dies from natural causes, but not before telling Diane one last time that she'll always "be there" if she needs her.
Taylor shows up as Kane begins his first assault on the home. Unable to get in through the television, as the family has removed all television sets from the house, Kane's minions are forced to find another way in, this time through Carol Anne's toy telephone. The attack fails, and the family gets out of the house quickly. Taylor introduces himself and convinces them that running would be a waste of time since Kane would only find them again, and they return to the house.
Kane shows up at the home one day in human form and demands to be let in, but Steven refuses. Taylor congratulates him for resisting Kane, then takes Steven to the desert and gives him the "Power of Smoke", a Native spirit that can repel Kane. Tangina shows up at the house and helps Diane to understand Kane's history and how he became the Beast that is now stalking the family. She also points out that Diane is unique in that she is one of the only people on earth who have been to the spirit world while living. Diane has visions of Kane in the mid-19th century when he was the head of an apocalyptic cult. Kane led his followers through the desert and into the cave, because he believed that the end of th