"Pot o' Gold" is the fourth episode of the third season of the American musical television series Glee, and the forty-eighth overall. It was written by Ali Adler, directed by Adam Shankman, and was first broadcast on Fox in the United States on November 1, 2011. The episode featured the arrival of Irish foreign exchange student Rory Flanagan (Glee Project prizewinner Damian McGinty) at McKinley High, a new challenger to Sue Sylvester (Jane Lynch) in her congressional race, and the ongoing fragmentation of the show's central glee club, New Directions.
The episode as a whole received mixed reviews from reviewers. The storyline involving Quinn, Puck and Shelby was extensively criticized, while the injection of Burt Hummel (Mike O'Malley) into the congressional race as Sue's opponent was greeted with enthusiasm. The music was received with somewhat more favor than the episode itself, especially "Candyman", sung by the newly constituted Troubletones.
All five song covers performed in the episode were released as singles, available for download, and one of them, "Last Friday Night (T.G.I.F.)", charted on the Billboard Hot 100. Upon its initial airing, this episode was viewed by 7.47 million American viewers and earned a 3.0/8 Nielsen rating/share in the 18–49 demographic. The total viewership numbers and rating/share were down significantly from the previous episode, "Asian F", which had been broadcast four weeks earlier on October 4, 2011.


== Plot ==
Rory Flanagan (Damian McGinty), a foreign exchange student from Ireland, has begun attending McKinley High and is regularly being bullied. He is staying at Brittany's (Heather Morris) house; she believes that he is a leprechaun. Rory, who has a crush on Brittany, does not disabuse her of this belief because she has promised to let him into her "pot o' gold" if he grants her three wishes. He easily fulfills her first two wishes in mundane ways.
Mercedes (Amber Riley) is recruiting for the new all-girl show choir directed by Shelby Corcoran (Idina Menzel), and asks Santana (Naya Rivera)—a member of the school's existing glee club, New Directions—to join. Santana balks at leaving Brittany behind, and when she and Brittany go out on a dinner date, Santana tries to recruit her, but Brittany is unwilling to leave her New Directions friends. She tells Santana of Rory's supposed magical powers, and Santana later coerces Rory into telling Brittany that Santana has wished for her to join Shelby's glee club. Brittany believes she must obey that wish, but her third wish is that doing so does not hurt anybody's feelings. New Directions co-captain Finn Hudson (Cory Monteith) tries to persuade Brittany not to leave: he tells her that leprechauns are not real and that she is being stupid. Brittany, insulted, quits anyway.
Quinn (Dianna Agron) and Puck (Mark Salling) offer to babysit Beth, their biological daughter who they gave up to Shelby for adoption. While babysitting, Quinn hides hot sauce, sharp knives, books on child cannibalism and other items to make Shelby look like an unfit mother; she subsequently calls Child Protective Services, under the assumption that they will ultimately restore Beth to her after they investigate and find the evidence. Puck later returns to secretly gather up the items. He also sings "Waiting for a Girl Like You" to calm a crying Beth and to comfort Shelby, who confesses she is extremely lonely. In the episode's closing moments, Puck and Shelby kiss.
Congressional candidate and cheerleading coach Sue Sylvester (Jane Lynch)—whose campaign platform includes the elimination of funding for school arts programs—editorializes on television to rescind the budget of the school's production of West Side Story. She succeeds after an angry mother throws a brick at Principal Figgins (Iqbal Theba). Glee club director Will Schuester (Matthew Morrison) recruits the members to sell advertising space in the program book to raise money; when Kurt (Chris Colfer) asks his father Burt H