"Prick Up Your Ears" is the sixth episode of the fifth season of Family Guy. It originally aired on Fox in the United States on November 19, 2006. In this episode, Lois discovers that Chris' school has removed the sex education program due to budget cuts and decides to bring the class back by becoming the teacher. She gets fired a short time later for teaching the students about safe sex rather than abstinence. Meanwhile, Stewie attempts to find and kill the Tooth Fairy after being told "horror" stories by Brian.
The episode was written by Cherry Chevapravatdumrong and directed by James Purdum. It received mixed reviews from critics for its storyline and many cultural references. According to Nielsen ratings, it was viewed in 9.3 million homes in its original airing. The episode featured guest performances by Drew Barrymore, Mindy Cohn, Gary Cole, Taylor Cole, Lauren Conrad, David Cross, Margaret Easley, Lauren Hooser, Kim Parks, Kevin Michael Richardson, André Sogliuzzo and Crawford Wilson, along with several recurring guest voice actors for the series.


== Plot ==
After Mayor West breaks the window of an adult video store with a "cat launcher" while chasing a pizza delivery guy due to West receiving the wrong pizza toppings, Chris and his friends steal some videos from the store and watch one of the pornographic films with Stewie, who is very confused at the plot of the film making little sense. Lois catches them watching the film "Genital Hospital" and becomes convinced a proper sex-ed class should be taught at his school. Since the sex-ed class at her children's school was removed, Lois decides to become the school's newest sex-ed teacher. In class, she attempts to teach students about safe sex, but her efforts are ruined by a botched attempt of Peter, who wishes to distribute his views on sex as well. Soon after the first sex-ed class, parental protests arise as Lois taught kids about safe ways to perform premarital sex, instead of abstinence. As a result, Lois is subsequently fired and banned from School grounds. She is replaced by reverend Jerry Kirkwood, who promotes both premarital and marital abstinence, explaining fictional consequences of intercourse with various questionable examples. The idea appeals to most students, including Meg, who starts a relationship with a fellow student named Doug.
Peter, truly believing the anti-sex propaganda Meg brings home, starts wearing a chastity belt and refuses to have sex with Lois. At the same time, Lois catches Meg and Doug engaging in "ear sex", which has become a fad at the school. Meg explains they did it so that it would not count as sex "in the eyes of the Lord". When Peter tries the same thing on Lois, she is outraged and rapes him. This actually gets Peter to change his mind and prompts him and Lois to collaborate into sneaking into the school after being banned. During one of Kirkwood's assemblies, Lois pushes him off of the stage and tells the kids not to listen to him as he is wrong and feeding them lies. She then tells the kids that while they should not have sex until they are ready, everyone has urges and it is okay to have premarital sex, but only as long as it is practiced safely and encourages them to use condoms. Following this revelation, Doug breaks up with Meg after discovering her naked appearance. A humiliated Meg blames Lois for destroying her relationship.
In a subplot, Stewie loses a tooth and is told about the tooth fairy. Frightened by the fairy tale, Stewie develops a plan to capture the fairy, not knowing she does not exist. He borrows Herbert's false teeth and provokes Brian's girlfriend Jillian to throw up, as she has bulimia nervosa, in order to collect her teeth as well. Brian, overseeing Stewie's increasing obsession with the fairy, reveals to Stewie that she does not exist, but another scene shows a man named T. Fairy, having an apparent tooth fetish, stealing teeth to roll around in them.


== Production and censorship ==
Many scenes from