Princess Caraboo is a 1994 American historical comedy-drama film.  It was directed by Michael Austin, and written by Austin and John Wells.  The story is based on the real-life 19th-century character Princess Caraboo, who passed herself off in British society as an exotic princess who spoke a strange foreign language.  It stars Phoebe Cates.


== Plot ==
In Regency England, an exotically dressed woman is found in the fields, speaking a language no-one can understand. She ends up at the home of the Worrall family, the local gentry.
Their Greek butler, Frixos, thinks the woman is a fraud from the start. Mr. Worrall sends her to the magistrate to be tried for vagrancy, but Mrs. Worrall agrees to care for her.  Mr. Gutch, a local printer and newspaper reporter, takes an interest in the case, especially after the woman claims via mime to be  Princess Caraboo.
Gutch talks to the farm workers who found her and learns she had a book from the Magdalene Hospital in London on her. When the Worralls leave on a trip the servants inspect her for a tattoo, which they believe all natives of the South Seas have and are shocked to find Princess Caraboo has one on her thigh.
Frixos tells Gutch he now thinks Princess Caraboo's a genuine princess. Mr Worrall uses her presence to recruit investors for the spice trade which will be facilitated by her when she returns to her native land. Gutch brings in Professor Wilkinson, a linguist who is initially dismissive of Caraboo's story but has enough doubt to refuse to say she is a fraud.
The local society finds Princess Caraboo fascinating, and they flock to attend parties and soirees with her. Mr. Gutch begins investigating people connected with the Magdalene House. Lady Apthorpe takes Caraboo to a ball held for the Prince Regent, who is fascinated by her.
Gutch learns Caraboo is actually Mary Baker, who worked as a servant for Mrs. Peake. He sneaks into the ball to warn her she's been found out, but she refuses to acknowledge what he tells her. Mrs. Peake comes and confronts Caraboo and identifies her as Mary Baker. She is locked up.
The local magistrate and Mr. Worrall want to hang her. Mrs. Worrall gives Mr. Gutch documents implicating her husband and the magistrate in a bank fraud. He uses these to work a trade, he will bury the story if Mary Baker can go to America. Gutch, who has fallen in love with Mary, leaves with her for the United States.


== Cast ==


== Reception ==
Princess Caraboo received mixed reviews. It holds a rating of 63% on Rotten Tomatoes based on 16 reviews.
Michael Medved of Sneak Previews placed the film as among his best films of 1994.


== References ==


== External links ==

Princess Caraboo at IMDb 
Princess Caraboo at AllMovie
Princess Caraboo at Box Office Mojo
Princess Caraboo at Rotten Tomatoes