Problem Child is a 1990 American black comedy film directed by Dennis Dugan in his feature film directorial debut and produced by Robert Simonds. It stars John Ritter, Michael Oliver, Jack Warden, Gilbert Gottfried, Amy Yasbeck, and Michael Richards. It was released on July 27, 1990.
Despite receiving negative reviews from critics, the film was a box office success, grossing $72.2 million worldwide against a production budget of $10 million.
It was followed by two sequels, Problem Child 2 (1991) and the made for TV Problem Child 3: Junior in Love (1995).


== Plot ==
Ben Healy Jr. is a pleasant but browbeaten yuppie working for his father, "Big Ben" Healy Sr., a tyrannical sporting goods dealer running for mayor. He would love to have a son, but his obnoxious wife, Flo, has been unable to conceive. He approaches less-than-scrupulous adoption agent Igor Peabody with his dilemma, and Peabody presents him and Flo with a cute 7-year-old boy named Junior. 
However, Junior is hardly a model child; mean-spirited and incorrigible, he leaves a path of severe destruction in his wake and is even pen pals with Martin "the Bow Tie Killer" Beck, a notorious criminal. The Healys' cat, Fuzzball, ends up in the animal hospital. Big Ben falls down the stairs, and his room catches on fire. He messes up a camping trip with his neighbor, Roy, and his family by urinating on the campfire and manipulating a practical joke played on the kids by Roy. Junior then terrorizes his neighbor Lucy's birthday party after she bans him from seeing the magic show. Finally, he displays his method for winning in a Little League baseball game, which involves hitting rival players in the crotch with the bat. Ben has severe doubts about him and takes him back to the orphanage. However, upon hearing he was done so thirty times by previous adoptive families, he decides to keep and love him, something no one has ever done. Distraught, Junior retaliates by driving Ben's car into Big Ben's store, and Ben's bank account gets wiped out by his father to pay for the damage done. Ben is on the verge of cracking until Beck arrives at the house and decides to kidnap Junior and Flo. 
While Ben first sees this as good riddance to browbeating Flo and trouble-making Junior, he soon notices signs that Junior is not the monster he appeared to be; through a series of pictures he drew, he depicts children and adults who treated him poorly as deformed monsters with hostile surroundings, but depicted Ben as a person in a pleasant background, revealing that he did value him as a father figure. Realizing that Junior's behavior was simply a reaction to how he was treated as a child, and he merely had the misfortune of dealing with too many selfish narcissists from a young age, Ben undertakes a rescue mission to get him back from Beck.
Now exerting a more assertive attitude, Ben first steals Roy's car and hat and confronts Big Ben for money. When he is rudely dismissed, Ben pushes a button that unknowingly puts Big Ben on camera, where he reveals his true nature on the news, even mooning the camera.
Ben catches up with Beck and Junior at the circus. Junior gets rescued after escaping from Beck through a trapeze act. Beck drives away, but the Healys are now on his tail. After a collision, Flo, who was stuffed in a suitcase, flies over the bridge and ends up in the back of a truck loaded with pigs. Beck is arrested, but not before getting a shot off, which hits Ben in the chest. Thinking he has died, Junior apologizes and tells him that he loves him. Ben wakes up and realizes that the bullet ricocheted off the good-luck prune he had in his shirt pocket. Junior then removes his bow tie and throws it over the bridge as a symbol, rejecting his relationship with Beck, perhaps because Junior has changed his ways. He walks away with Ben.


== Cast ==
John Ritter as Benjamin "Ben" Healy, Jr.
Michael Oliver as Junior Healy
Gilbert Gottfried as Igor Peabody, the adoption agent at the orphanage who is Jun