Prom Night is a Canadian slasher film franchise that comprises a total of five feature films, the first four of which are centered around events at the fictional Hamilton High School. The first film, Prom Night (1980), was a slasher film directed by Paul Lynch and produced by Peter R. Simpson, focusing on teenagers being stalked and murdered by a masked killer at their prom. The film was a box-office success, grossing nearly $15 million. The following sequel, Hello Mary Lou: Prom Night II (1987), was envisioned as a standalone film, but producer Simpson and his company, Simcom, refitted it as a sequel to the original Prom Night. Hello Mary Lou: Prom Night II, a supernatural-themed slasher film, introduced the character of Mary Lou Maloney, a vengeful young woman who died on her prom night in 1957; its only connection to the first film was that both films take place in the same high school.
In 1990, a second sequel featuring Mary Lou Maloney, Prom Night III: The Last Kiss, was released. The fourth film, Prom Night IV: Deliver Us from Evil (1992), featured an entirely new plot, following a group of teenagers tormented by a possessed Catholic priest on their prom night. In 2008, Screen Gems released a reboot mainly based on the original film, also titled Prom Night.


== Films ==


=== Prom Night (1980) ===
In the original Prom Night, a group of children–Wendy, Jude, Kelly, and Nick—inadvertently kill a young girl named Robin during a game. They make a vow of silence, and a sex offender is ultimately blamed for her death. Six years later, Robin's elder sister, Kim (Jamie Lee Curtis) and her fraternal twin brother, Alex, are planning to attend her senior prom at Hamilton High School. The prom falls on the sixth anniversary of Robin's death. Kim's father, the school principal (Leslie Nielsen) grows frightened when the sex offender escapes from a psychiatric facility the day before the school prom. Wendy, Jude, Kelly, and Nick receive obscene phone calls the day of the prom, and Jude, Kelly, and Wendy are dispatched in various violent manners during the dance by a killer dressed in a ski mask. Meanwhile, Kim and Nick are crowned prom queen and king. While waiting backstage before the reveal, Lou, a bully, takes Nick's crown from him. The killer, mistaking Lou for Nick, decapitates him, and his head rolls across the stage. A panic ensues among the promgoers, and Nick and Kim battle with the killer on the dance floor. Kim hits him in the side of the head with the blunt edge of the axe, and the killer stumbles outside. Kim follows him, unmasking him as he collapses outside, only to see that it is her brother, Alex—Alex had witnessed Robin's death, and sought vengeance against those responsible. Alex dies in her arms.


=== Hello Mary Lou: Prom Night II ===
In the film's sequel, Hello Mary Lou: Prom Night II, a teenage girl, Vicki Carpenter (Wendy Lyon), is preparing to attend the 1987 senior prom at Hamilton High. While searching for a dress in the school's costume room, she discovers a trunk full of mementos and clothing that belonged to Mary Lou Maloney, a teenage student who was burned to death during a prank while being crowned prom queen in 1957. Vicki decides to wear the dress, inadvertently unleashing Mary Lou's vengeful spirit. Mary Lou possesses Vicki, and manipulates those around her, killing several of Vicki's friends along the way. She seduces Vicki's father before killing her mother. At the prom, Vicki attends with her boyfriend, Craig (Louis Ferreira), whose father, Bill (Michael Ironside)—the school principal—was Mary Lou's boyfriend who was responsible for the prank that killed her. As Vicki is crowned prom queen, Bill shoots her, after which her body morphs into the burned corpse of Mary Lou. Mary Lou wreaks havoc, but is placated when Bill places the crown on her head; she kisses him, and disappears. Vicki and Craig leave the prom with Bill, only to realize in his car that he is now possessed by Mary Lou. 


=== Prom 