Psycho II is a 1983 American psychological slasher film directed by Richard Franklin, written by Tom Holland, and starring Anthony Perkins, Vera Miles, Robert Loggia, and Meg Tilly. It is the first sequel to Alfred Hitchcock's 1960 film Psycho and the second film in the Psycho franchise. Set 22 years after the first film, it follows Norman Bates after he is released from the mental institution and returns to the house and Bates Motel to continue a normal life. However, his troubled past continues to haunt him as someone begins to murder the people around him. The film is unrelated to the 1982 novel Psycho II by Robert Bloch, which he wrote as a sequel to his original 1959 novel Psycho.
In preparing the film, Universal hired Holland to write an entirely different screenplay, while Australian director Franklin, a student of Hitchcock's, was hired to direct. The film marked Franklin's American feature film debut.
Psycho II was released on June 3, 1983, and grossed $34.7 million at the box office on a budget of $5 million. It received mixed-to-positive reviews from film critics. The film was followed by Psycho III (1986).


== Plot ==
Twenty-two years after his killing spree, Norman Bates is deemed mentally sound and released from a mental institution, despite the protests of Marion Crane's sister Lila. Against the advice of Dr. Bill Raymond, Norman moves to his old home behind the Bates Motel and starts working in a nearby diner. A waitress there, Mary, gets thrown out of her boyfriend's place and Norman offers her to stay at his home. He later discovers that the motel's new manager, Warren Toomey, is dealing drugs and fires him.
Norman's assimilation into society appears to go well until he begins receiving mysterious phone calls and notes from "Mother" everywhere he goes. A drunk Toomey eventually picks a fight with Norman, who suspects him of leaving the messages. A figure in a black dress later kills Toomey.
One day, after hearing voices in the house, Norman enters his mother's bedroom to find it exactly as it was twenty-two years before. A sound lures him to the attic, where he is locked in. A female figure later appears in front of two teenagers who sneaked into the basement and kills one. The second one, however, escapes. In the attic, Mary finds Norman, who shows her his mother's bedroom, only to find it back to its state of disuse. The sheriff later questions them about the boy's murder. Mary claims they were out walking together at the time. Norman fears he may have killed the boy, since Mary said the attic door was unlocked when she found him.
That evening, Mary meets with Lila, her mother. The two have been making the phone calls and notes, even posing at the window dressed as Norman's mother. Mary altered the bedroom and locked Norman in the attic so she could change it back. All of this was an attempt to drive him insane again and have him recommitted. However, Mary's growing friendship with Norman has convinced her he is no longer capable of killing. She suspects someone else is in the house, pointing out that Norman was locked in the attic at the time of the boy's death.
Dr. Raymond discovers that Mary is Lila's daughter and suspects the two women must be the ones harassing Norman. Norman does not buy it, saying the one behind everything must be his "real mother", despite there being no record of him being adopted. Norman confronts Mary, who says that she has given up her part in Lila's ruse. Lila, however, will not stop.
While Lila is retrieving her "Mother" costume from the cellar, a shadowy figure murders her. Meanwhile, the police find Toomey's body. Mary runs to the house to try to convince Norman to flee. He answers the phone and starts speaking to "Mother". Mary listens in; nobody is on the line with him. While Norman debates with "Mother" about her command to kill Mary, she runs into the cellar and dresses up as Mother in a bid to get Norman to "hang up". Dr. Raymond grabs her from behind, thinking he has 