This is a list of characters from the Puppet Master series of films.


== André Toulon ==
André Toulon is the main protagonist of the Puppet Master series. Toulon appeared as a hero in Puppet Master III: Toulon's Revenge, and a victim in the beginning of the first film. After dying, Toulon was resurrected first as a villain in His Unholy Creation only and then as just another fighter inside a puppet-body. He is referenced throughout the movies, and is the greatest connection, besides the puppets themselves, the films have with each other. In Curse of the Puppet Master his name was only on a sign. In Puppet Master, parts of the legend of Toulon is that he committed suicide in 1939. But in Puppet Master 3 takes place in 1941, and he is still very much alive. (possibly a mistake) Toulon is played by William Hickey in Puppet Master, by Steve Welles in Puppet Master II, by  Guy Rolfe in Puppet Master III: Toulon's Revenge, Puppet Master 4 and Puppet Master 5: The Final Chapter.  Rolfe and Greg Sestero played the character at different ages in the prequel Retro Puppet Master.


== Blade ==
The Leader of the puppets is one of the few puppets, along with Pinhead, to appear in all of the Puppet Master movies to date. He is the only puppet to have appeared on all of the VHS, DVD and Blu-ray covers of the Puppet master Movies. He is 1'9", weighs 4 lbs, and bears a gothic-styled appearance. He has a gaunt pale face with seemingly empty black eye sockets and long white hair and wears a black trench coat and wide-brimmed hat. It is revealed (in Puppet Master III: Toulon's Revenge) that Blade was created by André Toulon and modeled after Gestapo Major (Sturmbannführer) Krauss. He has the soul of Dr. Hess, a German scientist and medical doctor who wanted to work with Toulon. He was used for evil under puppet masters Neil Gallagher, André Toulon (in Puppet Master II) and Dr. Magrew, all three of whom he later turned against. He was used for good under André Toulon, Fritz Blackwood, Danny Coogan, Rick Meyers, Peter Hertz A.K.A. Eric Weiss, and Robert Toulon whom she each served loyally. Blade has a sharp hook for his left hand and a knife for his right hand. He sometimes has spike-shaped "bullet eyes" that pop out of his sockets from time to time.
Appears in all the Puppet Master films.


== Pinhead ==
Pinhead is 1'7" and weighs 2 lbs. Before he became a puppet, Pinhead was a man named Herman Strauss. Strauss was a truck driver who secretly brought food to the Jewish ghettos; as a result, he was killed by the Nazis for treason. His retro version was the soul of a beggar André Toulon knew. The Retro version was the first puppet Toulon (with the help of Afzel) brought to life (Retro Puppet Master). Pinhead was used for evil under puppet masters Neil Gallagher, André Toulon (Puppet Master II), and Dr. Magrew, all whom he turned against in the end. Pinhead's only power is his two big hands, which can deliver quite a punch. He is unnaturally strong, able to move or drag a full grown human body with ease. Pinhead got his name from the fact that his head is tinier that the rest of his body.
Appears in all the Puppet Master films.


== Leech Woman ==
Ms. Leech is 1 ft 7 in (0.48 m) and weighs 2 lbs. She began as a young Swiss girl named Ilsa. Ilsa's father was an unloving Swiss ambassador. One night in 1902, while she and her father were in Paris, Ilsa traveled to the Theater Magic where she met her future husband André Toulon. Later, she is kidnapped by the slaves of the demon lord, Sutekh, and is rescued by André and his first six puppets (Retro Puppet Master). Later in 1926, Ilsa (now named Elsa) and André go to Cairo, where André's (presumed 7th) living puppet, Mephisto, is burned to a crisp. An old merchant gives Toulon a new type of magic which Ilsa convinces André to learn from the merchant. In Berlin, Ilsa and André have four new puppets, Tunneler, Jester, Pinhead and Six-Shooter. Tunneler, Pinhead and Jester are based on their friends: Joseph 