Purple Noon (French: Plein soleil; Italian: Delitto in pieno sole; also known as Full Sun, Blazing Sun, Lust for Evil, and Talented Mr. Ripley) is a 1960 crime thriller film starring Alain Delon (in his first major role), alongside Marie Laforêt and Maurice Ronet; Romy Schneider, Delon's girlfriend at the time, makes a brief cameo appearance in the film. Directed by René Clément, the French/Italian international co-production is loosely based on the 1955 novel The Talented Mr. Ripley by Patricia Highsmith. The majority of the film's dialogue is spoken in French, although there are brief sequences in Italian and English.
Anthony Minghella's 1999 film The Talented Mr. Ripley and the 2024 streaming television series Ripley are adaptations of the same source novel.


== Plot ==
Handsome young American Tom Ripley has been sent to Italy by the father of wealthy playboy Philippe Greenleaf to persuade him to return to San Francisco and take over the family business. Philippe has no intention of doing so, and the impoverished Tom falls into sharing in his escapades.
Tom becomes fixated on Philippe and his fiancée, Marge, and covets the other man's life of luxury and leisure in the beautiful seaside town of Mongibello. Philippe eventually grows bored with Ripley's fawning and becomes cruel and abusive to him. The final straw for Tom is reached during a yachting trip when Philippe strands him in the dinghy and accidentally leaves him to drift for hours in the blazing sun.
Back on board, Tom hatches a plan to kill Philippe and steal his identity. First, he leaves evidence of Philippe's philandering for an outraged Marge to find. Finding that Tom has pilfered his banking records, Philippe seeks to draw him out. After Marge goes ashore following a blow-up with Philippe, he confronts Tom, who admits his plan quite casually. Philippe offers Tom a substantial sum to leave him and Marge alone, but Tom rebuffs it, saying he is interested in far more. He fatally stabs Philippe, weights his body with an anchor, and wraps it in canvas, and he is preparing to dump it overboard when he is hit by the ship's boom and knocked in the sea, taking Philippe's corpse with him. Tom narrowly manages to make it back onto the ship.
Upon returning to Mongibello alone, Tom informs Marge that Philippe has decided to stay away. He then goes to Rome, skillfully replaces Philippe's picture with his own in Philippe's passport, masters forging Philippe's signature, and successfully takes over the dead man's wealth, identity, and lifestyle.
When Philippe's friend Freddy Miles tracks down "Philippe's" hideaway, he is surprised to only find Tom there. Feeling he is beginning to suspect the truth, Tom impulsively murders him. Freddy's body is soon found, and the Italian police become involved. Tom continues his charade, switching like a chameleon between his own identity and Philippe's to give the illusion that Philippe is still alive and implicate him in Freddy's murder. 
Tom survives a long string of close shaves, throwing the Italian police off his trail and seemingly outwitting everyone. After forging Philippe's suicide note and a will that leaves Philippe's entire fortune to Marge, Tom thinks he is finally in the clear. He then seduces Marge, dallying with her in Philippe's home.
Philippe's father arrives in Mongibello to settle the transfer of Philippe's estate and the sale of his yacht. Marge leaves Tom at the beach to go meet Mr. Greenleaf, while Tom goes to a seaside cafe and celebrates the success of his gambit by ordering the best drink in the house. As Philippe's boat is being pulled out of the water so a potential buyer can inspect it, Marge is horrified to see Philippe's canvas-wrapped body dragged up the slipway behind it, the loose end of the lashing having become wrapped around the sailboat's propeller. A police inspector from Rome who has been watching Tom jumps into action and goes to the cafe, where he has the waitress tell Tom, who is lounging in the su