The Quarry is a 2022 interactive drama horror game developed by Supermassive Games and published by 2K. Players assume control of nine teenage counselors who must survive their last night at Hackett's Quarry summer camp amongst supernatural creatures and violent locals. Players make many choices throughout the game which may significantly affect character development, relationships, the story's plot, and its ending. All nine playable characters may survive or die, depending on the player's decisions.
Envisioned as the spiritual successor to Until Dawn (2015) and inspired by teen slasher and monster films such as Friday the 13th and The Thing, The Quarry features a large ensemble cast including Brenda Song, Skyler Gisondo, David Arquette, Halston Sage, Ted Raimi, Ariel Winter, Ethan Suplee, Lance Henriksen, Lin Shaye, Justice Smith, and Grace Zabriskie. 
The Quarry was released for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S on 10 June 2022. The game received generally positive reviews from critics, who praised its narrative design, characters, cast performances, graphics, and its homages to classic horror films, though criticism was aimed at its gameplay, lack of interaction, abrupt endings and camera system.


== Gameplay ==
Played from a third-person perspective, the player assumes control of nine different teenagers who must survive a night at the Hackett's Quarry. The player must regularly make different decisions, which can change the character development, the plot, and the relationships between different characters. All nine playable characters may die via multiple ways by the end of the game. Although the game lasts about ten hours, early deaths of certain characters may shorten it.
The game is divided into ten chapters along with a prologue and epilogue. In between each chapter, as is traditional with Supermassive Games' horror games, there are occasional intermissions with a narrator, this time being fortune teller, Eliza (Grace Zabriskie), addresses the player directly and guides their future choices by reading tarot cards that the player has collected throughout the game.
Due to the game's branching storyline, it has 186 different endings, affected by player choices, performances in quick-time events, and vigilance in finding evidence and clues determine the game's conclusion, as well as the public's perception of the deaths that occurred at Hackett's Quarry. Once the player completes their first playthrough of the game, they will unlock Death Rewind, which allows them to undo three character deaths in each subsequent playthrough. Players can disable certain gameplay elements such as button mashing, quick-time events, and aiming and shooting, allowing them to progress in the game with minimum input.
The game features local and online multiplayer. In local multiplayer, players take turns to control different characters, while in the online mode, seven other participating players can vote in key decisions. Players can participate in voting by only downloading the demo version of The Quarry. The game also features a movie mode in which the player can set the personality traits of different characters and then let the story play out. Downloadable content was also included for purchase which allowed the player to use the "Death Rewind" option at the first playthrough, as well as an "80s throwback" mode which gives the characters alternate outfits which were popular in the 1980s.


== Plot ==
Laura Kearney (Siobhan Williams) and Max Brinly (Skyler Gisondo) drive during the night of June 24, 2021 to visit Hackett's Quarry, where the two have been hired as summer camp counselors. They swerve off the road to avoid hitting something and crash into the woods. A local county sheriff (Ted Raimi) approaches their car and orders them to stay the night at a nearby motel, but they drive to the camp anyway. Upon arrival, Laura hears a noise coming from a civil defense shelter under the lodge and opens it. Ma