The Quiet Man is an action-adventure beat 'em up video game developed by Human Head Studios and published by Square Enix for Microsoft Windows and PlayStation 4. The game's story is told through lengthy full motion video sequences, some of which feature live-action actors, inserted between the gameplay sequences. It features a deaf protagonist, reflected by muted sound with no subtitles in most of the cutscenes.
The Quiet Man was critically panned upon its release, with the complaints stemming from issues with the story, the underdeveloped gameplay sequences, and the lack of commitment displayed towards the deafness gimmick. In response, the audio was restored in a post-release update as an optional feature.


== Gameplay ==
Most of the game consists of full motion videos and extended cutscenes, but players participate most intensely during combat scenarios. Wordless on screen symbols explain how combat can proceed. Players have the option of punching, kicking, and evasion, as well as combination moves. There is also a "focus" mode where players can "beat down" their opponent with a flurry of blows.


== Plot ==
A young, deaf boy named Dane interrupts a quarrel between his friend, Taye, and a bully, Isaac, that results in Dane's mother Lorraine getting shot when Taye and Isaac struggle over a gun. Isaac takes credit for the killing and is arrested while Taye runs away. Dane's policeman father, Robert, blames Dane for his wife's death and becomes abusive toward him. Dane, traumatized by these events, makes up a character in his drawings named "The Quiet Man", who resembles a plague doctor.
Years later, Dane serves as an enforcer for Taye, who runs a nightclub and leads an American Mafia-styled mob. Taye expresses concern about his girlfriend, a singer named Lala (who appears identical to Lorraine), who has been receiving mysterious letters addressed to her by a stalker. When Dane escorts Lala to the nightclub, her performance is interrupted by an ambush from SOL 33, a rival gang led by Isaac. The stalker, who looks like Dane's "Quiet Man" drawing, kidnaps Lala during the confusion. Taye's associate B-Money wants Dane to call Taye about the escalation of the gang war, but Dane prefers to recover Lala on his own. B-Money ignores Dane's advice and calls Taye anyway, inciting the mob boss's anger.
Dane tracks Lala's trail throughout the city, leading him to Isaac's penthouse. There Dane fights Isaac, throwing him out a window, and rescues Lala. While escaping the building they encounter Taye, who angrily believes that Dane is the stalker and tried to trick Taye into a gang war with Isaac out of jealously over Lala. Lala explains to Taye that she faked her own kidnapping, but Taye decides to have them both killed. Robert, now a detective, appears and saves them both.
As Dane and Robert pursue Taye to his office, Taye shoots Robert and tries to explain to Dane that the death of Lorraine was an accident. Taye is interrupted by Lala before he can shoot Dane, and Taye chases her up to the roof. A wounded Robert encourages Dane to put on The Quiet Man mask to save Lala. As The Quiet Man, Dane confronts Taye and fights off his men. After losing a fight with Dane, Taye decides to shoot Lala but Dane takes the bullet for her. Injured, Dane reawakens with supernatural abilities, and kills Taye. Robert appears wearing the Quiet Man mask and reveals he was the stalker, and helped Lala fake her own kidnapping in order to manipulate Dane into killing Isaac and Taye to get revenge for Lorraine. Dane and Robert fight, ending in both of them collapsing from their injuries.
A post-credits scene has Dane being released from prison as a result of his actions, and meeting up with Robert, ready to make amends for the events that have unfolded.


== Development and release ==
The Quiet Man was announced during Square Enix's press conference at E3 2018. To give an insight of the game's concept, a series of planned producer letters by Kensei Fujinaga were 