Race the Sun is a 1996 American comedy-drama film directed by Charles T. Kanganis and starring Halle Berry and James Belushi. The plot is loosely based on the true story of the Konawaena High School Solar Car Team, which finished 18th in the 1990 World Solar Challenge and first place among high school entries.


== Plot ==

In Hawaii, Sandra Beecher arrives at Kona Pali High School for her first day as a teacher after the residing science teacher quit. Upon arriving she instantly meets Frank Machi, the shop teacher, who orients her. In her first class she meets several students. These include Daniel Webster, a surfer and aspiring designer, Marco Quito, an outspoken and flashy cool kid, Gilbert Tutu, an overweight and shy, yet brilliant computer geek, Oni Nagano, a whiny valley girl of Japanese descent, Eduardo Braz, a young mechanic who is quick to defend his heritage and his friends from insults, and Luana Kanahele, Eduardo's girlfriend. Sandra is quick to confess to her class that she doesn't science, but English, yet emphasizes that unlike the other teachers she intends to push them through their classes despite their self-declared "lolo" (stupid) status.
In a teacher's meeting, Sandra attempts unsuccessfully to raise awareness for the science fair that week since no students at Kona Pali are participating. Her attempts are rebuffed due to a looming sense of hopelessness regarding what can be accomplished at the school. Frank chides her and tells her that she will understand with time. Daniel's design for an experimental surfboard is rejected by his boss at his job, unmotivatingly telling him to stick to the preset designs. The next day, Sandra calls Daniel, Braz, Marco, Gilbert, Oni, and Luana. The six being the only students to not offer a proposal for a science project so she requires them to attend the district science fair the following night in order to come up with ideas.
At the fair, a solar car model done by Sutcliffe Academy is showcased as being an entry for the upcoming Hawaiian inter-island solar car race. Jack Fryman, marketing vice-president of Celtech Corporation and the father of Steve Fryman, one of the students involved, announces that the winner of that race will be admitted into the World Solar Challenge, a six-day race held in Australia. Gilbert and Daniel express interest but they're rebuffed by the rest claiming it to be more of a "haole" affair. When Daniel begins to admire the mini-model of the solar car, Steve instantly harasses him and tells him not to go near their car, calling him a lolo in the process. The other students arrive and Marco instantly begins to trade words with Steve, and Sandra attempts to defuse the situation by getting them to walk away. Steve, however, directs one last sexually degrading comment towards Luana, which causes Braz to punch him. Jack Fryman arrives and Steve claims that Braz attacked him for no reason, Jack then has security called to escort him out calling Braz an animal.
In Saturday detention, the six start talking once the supervising teacher leaves. The blame eventually landing on Daniel for their situation, and Braz instantly attacks Daniel calling him a haole given what happened and how Daniel acted throughout. Daniel tells Braz he is just as local as the rest of them, to which Braz proposes retaliating violently against the Sutcliffe team. Daniel simply shows him a sketch for a solar car, as an alternative means of fighting back against what happened. Once released from detention, the six students visit Sandra's home and show her the sketch as their proposal for the science project. The six are determined to do it despite the race only being two months away, regardless of whether or not they receive credit for it since they want to get back at Sutcliffe. Braz being the mechanic, Daniel being the designer and handler of fiber glass, Marco offering himself as the lead driver, Gilbert's computer knowledge is also employed while Luana is left to eventually thin