Ian Royston Jones (born 24 January 1953), better known as Bruce Jones, is an English actor. He is best known for his role as taxi driver Les Battersby in Coronation Street from 1997 to 2007.


== Early life ==
Jones was born in Collyhurst, Manchester. As a child, he spent two years on a hospital isolation ward with rheumatic fever. When he was 12, his parents separated and he was expelled from school, after which he was raised in North Wales by his grandmother. He left school at 16 and worked as a pipe fitter; he was also a fireman.


== Career ==


=== Early career ===
Jones had a teacher who encouraged him to become an actor. He and a friend formed a comedy duo, known as Clark and Jones, and he began using his father's name, Bruce Jones, as his stage name.
After years acting in addition to day jobs, Jones' first big break came in 1993, when he was cast in the lead role of Bob Williams in Ken Loach's feature film Raining Stones. The film won the Evening Standard British Film Awards for Best Film and Best Screenplay.
In 1995, Jones had a role as a prostitute's client in Band of Gold.  In 1996 he appeared in Shane McGovern's Hillsborough. In 1997, Jones had a small part in the film The Full Monty, and also appeared with Bob Hoskins in the Shane Meadows film Twenty Four Seven.


=== Coronation Street years ===
From July 1997 to May 2007, Jones was a regular cast member of the ITV soap opera Coronation Street as the outspoken rogue Les Battersby.
Since then, Jones has had numerous credits for film and television productions, including Heartbeat, A Touch of Frost, the pilot episode of Harry Hill's TV Burp, and Roughnecks. He appeared as Dean Martin in Celebrity Stars in Their Eyes, Mr. Bumble in Oliver for Children in Need, and the Robber in Granada's televised Christmas pantomime Cinderella. He also made several television appearances in game shows and chat shows.
In March 2007, he was suspended from Coronation Street after allegedly getting drunk with an undercover reporter, making inappropriate comments and revealing future storylines. It was confirmed in May that year that Jones would not be returning to the show; he would be suspended until his contract ended in September. Jones noted that he was one of the victims of the since-discredited reporter Mazher Mahmood, and has said that his departure from the programme was voluntary.


=== After Coronation Street ===
Since leaving Coronation Street, Jones has performed stand-up comedy routines in Benidorm. On 23 March 2008, he featured in Celebrity Wife Swap with Sinitta. He played Mick the Manager in the film Souled Out, and also appeared on the TV programme The Dark Side of Fame with Piers Morgan.
With four other celebrities, Jones took part in the BBC One show Famous, Rich and Homeless, broadcast in June 2009. The five temporarily lived on the streets of London. Jones was clearly the most affected by the experience, regularly seen breaking into tears and considering pulling out of the programme. He ranted to the camera advocating the reinstatement of hanging in the UK, in order to free up funds to assist the homeless and pensioners. He referenced his horrific discovery of one of the Yorkshire Ripper's victims, describing himself as a victim.
In November 2009, Jones appeared in Celebrity Come Dine with Me. The competition also featured presenter Yvette Fielding and Atomic Kitten member Natasha Hamilton; it was won by former Catchphrase host Roy Walker. The same year, he worked with Manchester-based production company Gritish Films, featuring in the short film Down Our Way, alongside Inspiral Carpets vocalist Clint Boon and actor Gary Graham Smith.
During the 2009–10 Christmas season, Jones appeared as King Rat in the pantomime Dick Whittington at the Contemporary Urban Centre in Liverpool. In 2011, he performed as Captain Hook and Mr. Darling in Peter Pan at the Blackfriars Arts Centre in Boston. He struggled with this role, however, and was reported to have lost his voice.
In A