Raise the Red Lantern (Chinese: 大紅燈籠高高掛), originally known as Wives and Concubines (Chinese: 妻妾成群; pinyin: Qīqiè Chéngqún), is a 1990 novella by Su Tong, published by Yuan-Liou Publishing Co. (遠流出版公司), that describes a female former university student whose mind is broken by the concubine system in 1930s China. It was adapted into the 1991 film, Raise the Red Lantern, by Zhang Yimou.


== Title and translations ==
The first edition of the novella, published in Taiwan, had the name Wives and Concubines. However the name used in the second edition in Taiwan and in the Hong Kong edition became Raise the Red Lantern. Krist wrote that the use of Raise the Red Lantern by other editions was "presumably to ride on the movie's popularity".
The novel was translated into English by Michael S. Duke, and this translation was published as a collection of stories by Su Tong, named Raise the Red Lantern: Three Novellas, published by William Morrow & Company in 1993. Duke used Hanyu Pinyin in his translation. He stated that he chose to romanize the names of male characters as such characters did not have important themes in their names. He chose to translate names of female characters as their names were "thematically important references to nature and the cycles of nature" as well as having the function to "delineate" said characters. Duke used frequent semicolons to try to keep Su Tong's practice of, in Duke's words, "very long multiple sentences marked with commas only", something uncommon in current Chinese literature. The other two included works in the compilation are Nineteen Thirty-four Escapes (Chinese: 一九三四年的逃亡; pinyin: Yījiǔsānsì Nián de Táowáng), and Opium Family (罂粟之家; Yīngsù zhī Jiā).
The French version, under the title Épouses et concubines, was translated by Annie Au Yeung and Françoise Lemoine, and published by Groupe Flammarion in 1992. The film had not yet been released in Europe when the French version was released. Later editions in French are a part of the imprint Le Livre de Poche of the publisher Hachette. The novella was published in German as Rote Lanterne ("Red Lantern"), by Goldmann, in 1992. The German translation was done from the French version, with assistance from Sinologists, instead of directly from the Chinese version. Ulrike Kloepfner, the editor, stated that there was not enough time to obtain the manuscrupt of the Chinese version as the publishers wished to release it when the film was released.
The Dutch translation, De rode lantaarn, published by Uitgeverij Contact, was released in 1994. The Italian translation, Mogli e concubine, was first published in 1992 by Theoria. Later Italian versions were published by Feltrinelli. The Japanese version, using the Wives and Concubines title (妻妾成群), was translated by Takumasa Senno (千野拓政 Senno Takumasa); this was included in Volume 1, Issue 20 of Quarterly Modern Novels of China (季刊中国現代小説), January 1992, published by Sososha (蒼蒼社). The Russian translation, Жены и наложницы, was done by Natalya Vladimirovna Zakharova (Наталья Владимировна Захарова), published in 2007 by the Russian Academy of Sciences. The Swedish version, titled Den röda lyktan: två berättelser från Kina, was translated by Anna Gustafsson Chen and published in 1993 by Bokförlaget Tranan.


== Plot ==
Lotus is attending university when her father's tea business goes bankrupt. She chooses to become a concubine of Chen Zuoqian in the rich Chen household in order to avoid having to work. From the beginning, she does not fit into the household with its three other wives. Initially, the first mistress Joy ignores her, the second mistress Cloud befriends her, and the third mistress Coral acts with outright hostility. Coral goes so far as to interrupt Lotus's wedding night with the lie that she has taken ill.
Chen's elder son Feipu, who is older than Lotus, comes home. He favors Lotus's company and she begins to fall for him, especially because he plays the flute so well and movingly. Meanwhile, one eveni