Rambo: First Blood Part II is a 1985 American action film directed by George P. Cosmatos from a story by Kevin Jarre, and a screenplay by James Cameron and Sylvester Stallone, who also reprises his role as Vietnam War veteran John Rambo. A sequel to First Blood (1982), it is the second installment in the Rambo franchise, followed by Rambo III. It co-stars Richard Crenna, who reprises his role as Colonel Sam Trautman, along with Charles Napier, Julia Nickson, and Steven Berkoff.
The film's plot is inspired by the Vietnam War POW/MIA issue. In the movie, Rambo gets released from prison in a deal with the United States government to document the possible existence of missing POWs in Vietnam, but is given strict orders not to rescue any. When Rambo defies his orders, he is abandoned and forced once again to rely on his own brutal combat skills to save the POWs.
Despite mixed reviews, Rambo: First Blood Part II was a major global blockbuster, with an estimated $150 million sold in the United States, becoming the second highest grossing film at the domestic box office and the third highest grossing film worldwide in 1985. It has become one of the most recognized installments in the series, having inspired countless rip-offs, parodies, video games and imitations. In 2009, Entertainment Weekly ranked the movie number 23 on its list of "The Best Rock-'em, Sock-'em Movies of the Past 25 Years".


== Plot ==
Three years after the events in Hope, Washington, former U.S. Army Green Beret John Rambo is imprisoned at a penal labor facility. He is met by Colonel Sam Trautman, his commanding officer during the Vietnam War. Trautman explains that the U.S. government is under pressure because of reports that POWs are still being held in Vietnam. To placate the public, a solo infiltration mission has been approved. Rambo agrees to take the mission in exchange for a pardon.
Rambo and Trautman arrive in Thailand, where they meet helicopter pilot Ericson, his partner Lifer, and Marshall Murdock, the bureaucrat overseeing the operation. He is instructed to take pictures of a suspected POW camp, but not to engage enemy personnel or attempt a rescue. Rambo confides to Trautman that he is the only person involved whom Rambo trusts.
During his aerial insertion, Rambo's parachute gets caught. He is forced to cut himself free and jettison most of his gear, leaving him only with knives and a bow and arrow. His assigned contact, Vietnamese intelligence agent Co Bao, arranges for local river pirates to take them upriver. Rambo reaches the Vietnamese camp, which is commanded by Captain Vinh and Lieutenant Tay. Rambo confirms the presence of POWs. Against orders, he frees a POW named Banks.
Rambo, Co, and Banks attempt to withdraw, but the river pirates betray them as a Vietnamese gunboat closes in. Rambo kills the pirates and disables the gunboat with an RPG. Shortly before reaching an extraction point, Rambo and Banks separate from Co. Under mortar attack, they are spotted by Trautman aboard a rescue helicopter with Ericson and Lifer. Trautman informs base, but Murdock responds by ordering Ericson to abort the rescue. Lifer prevents Trautman from interfering as the crew abandons Rambo and Banks, who are captured by the Vietnamese. Confronted by Trautman upon his return to base, Murdock reveals that the mission was a sham. Any evidence of POWs would have been ignored, as the discovery would have forced the United States to expend resources, or possibly even start another war to secure their release.
At the POW camp, Rambo finds that the Vietnamese are being assisted by the Soviet military. Soviet liaison Lieutenant Colonel Podovsky and his right-hand man, Sergeant Yushin, abuse and interrogate Rambo. Podovsky demands that he broadcast a message to Murdock discouraging further rescue missions. Rambo refuses and is tortured with electric shocks. He finally relents when Banks is brought in and threatened with eye-gouging. Rambo dials in a secret radio frequency t