Rear Window is a 1954 American mystery thriller film directed by Alfred Hitchcock and written by John Michael Hayes based on Cornell Woolrich's 1942 short story It Had to Be Murder. Originally released by Paramount Pictures, the film stars James Stewart, Grace Kelly, Wendell Corey, Thelma Ritter, and Raymond Burr. It was screened at the 1954 Venice Film Festival.
Rear Window is considered by many filmgoers, critics, and scholars to be one of Hitchcock's best, as well as one of the greatest films ever made. It received four Academy Award nominations, and was ranked number 42 on AFI's 100 Years...100 Movies list and number 48 on the 10th-anniversary edition, and in 1997 was added to the United States National Film Registry in the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant."


== Plot ==
While recuperating after breaking his leg, a professional photographer, L. B. "Jeff" Jefferies, is confined to a wheelchair in his apartment in Greenwich Village, Manhattan. His rear window looks out onto a courtyard and other apartments. During an intense heat wave, he watches his neighbors, who keep their windows open to stay cool. They include a lonely woman, whom Jeff nicknames "Miss Lonelyhearts"; a newlywed couple; a composing pianist; a pretty dancer, nicknamed "Miss Torso"; a middle-aged couple, whose small dog likes digging in the flower garden; and Lars Thorwald, a traveling costume-jewelry salesman with a bedridden wife.

Jeff is visited regularly by Lisa Fremont, his socialite girlfriend, and by a nurse, Stella. One night, after an argument with Lisa, Jeff is alone in his apartment and hears a woman scream "Don't!" and the sound of breaking glass. Later that night, during a thunderstorm, he observes Thorwald making repeated excursions carrying a suitcase. Later, after Jeff dozes off, Thorwald leaves his apartment along with a woman. The next morning, Jeff notices that Thorwald's wife is gone, and sees him cleaning a large knife and handsaw. Thorwald also has moving-men haul away a large trunk. Jeff becomes convinced that Thorwald has murdered his wife, and tells Lisa and Stella, who believe him when they notice that Thorwald's wife isn't in bed anymore. Jeff calls his friend and war buddy Tom Doyle, a New York City Police detective, and asks him to investigate Thorwald. Doyle finds nothing suspect: apparently Mrs. Thorwald is upstate.
Soon after, the neighbor's dog is found dead. The distraught owner yells and all the neighbors run to their windows to see what the yelling is about—except Thorwald, who sits quietly in his dark apartment, smoking a cigar. Certain that Thorwald killed the dog, Jeff telephones him to lure him away so that Stella and Lisa can investigate. He believes that Thorwald buried something in the flower bed and killed the dog because it was digging there. When Thorwald leaves, Lisa and Stella dig up the flowers, only to find nothing there.
Much to Jeff's amazement and admiration, Lisa climbs up the fire escape to Thorwald's apartment and clambers in through an open window. Jeff and Stella get distracted when they see Miss Lonelyhearts take out some pills and write a note, apparently about to commit suicide. They call the police; but, before they can report the suicide attempt, Miss Lonelyhearts stops, opening the window to listen to the pianist's music. Thorwald returns and confronts Lisa, and Jeff realizes that Thorwald is going to kill her. As he already was on the phone calling the police (because of Miss Lonelyhearts attempted suicide), Jeff uses the call to report an assault in progress. The police arrive and arrest Lisa when Thorwald indicates that she broke in to his apartment. Jeff sees Lisa coyly pointing to her finger with Mrs. Thorwald's wedding ring on it. Thorwald sees this also and, realizing that she is signaling someone, spots Jeff across the courtyard.
Jeff phones Doyle and leaves an urgent message while Stella goes to bail Lisa out of jail. When his phone 