Red Dawn is a 2012 American action war film directed by Dan Bradley and written by Carl Ellsworth and Jeremy Passmore. It is a remake of the 1984 film of the same name. The film stars Chris Hemsworth, Josh Peck, Josh Hutcherson, Adrianne Palicki, Isabel Lucas, and Jeffrey Dean Morgan. The film centers on a group of young people who defend their hometown from a North Korean invasion.
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer announced its intention to remake Red Dawn in May 2008 and subsequently hired Bradley and Ellsworth. The principal characters were cast the following year and the film went into production in September 2009 in Mount Clemens, Michigan. Originally scheduled to be released on September 24, 2010, and November 24, 2010, the film was shelved because of MGM's financial troubles. While in post-production, the invading army and antagonists were changed from Chinese to North Korean in order to maintain access to the Chinese box office, though the film was still not released in China.
Because of MGM's bankruptcy, the distribution rights were sold to FilmDistrict in September 2011 and the film was released in the United States on November 21, 2012, to mostly negative reviews. The film is also a box-office bomb, grossing $50.9 million against its $65 million budget.


== Plot ==
In the fallout of an economic crisis in the European Union and a weakened NATO alliance, collaborative dealings have occurred between a progressively militant North Korea, now led by the young Kim Jong Un, and ultranationalist-dominated Russia. The increased deployment of U.S. troops abroad leaves the mainland vulnerable, and American infrastructure is increasingly vulnerable to the threat of a cyberattack.
U.S. Marine Jed Eckert is home on leave in Spokane, Washington. He reunites with his father, Spokane Police Sergeant Tom Eckert, and his brother, Matt Eckert, as well as his childhood friend Toni Walsh and her cousin Erica Martin, Matt's girlfriend. Later that night, an unexpected blackout occurs throughout the city.
The following morning, Jed and Matt awaken to strange noises in the local area, seeing swarms of invading North Korean paratroopers and transport aircraft in the sky above the town. They  meet up with their father, who tells them to flee to their cabin in the woods outside of town, while he helps the townspeople. They are joined there by Matt's friends Robert Kitner, Daryl Jenkins, Danny Jackson, siblings Julie and Greg Goodyear, a stranger named Pete, and later by Toni after Erica is captured by the North Koreans. Tensions build as the group tries to decide whether to surrender to the invaders or resist, with Pete ending up betraying their position. North Korean soldiers, under the command of Captain Cho, bring Daryl's father, the mayor, out to convince the group to surrender; while the mayor attempts to persuade the boys to give up, Sergeant Eckert is also brought forward to speak. After he refuses to cooperate and actively encourages them to resist the invasion, he is executed by Cho in front of all the group, who are hiding in the bushland.
Later, Jed announces that he intends to fight and the others agree to join him. After acquiring weapons, establishing a base in an abandoned mine, and being trained by Jed, the group call themselves the Wolverines after their school mascot, and begin a series of guerrilla attacks against soldiers and collaborators, including Pete, who is killed in a bomb explosion. Matt jeopardizes the mission by attempting to free Erica; he is successful, but Greg is killed. The North Koreans retaliate by locating their hideout and successfully bombard the surrounding woods, which destroys the Wolverines' base, killing Danny and Julie, with the remaining survivors fleeing deeper into the woods.
The Wolverines eventually encounter U.S. Marines Sergeant Major Andrew Tanner, Corporal Smith, and Sergeant Hodges. They reveal that the Russian-backed North Korean invasion used an EMP weapon that crippled the U.S. electrical grid and 