Red Sonja is a 1985 American epic sword and sorcery film directed by Richard Fleischer, and written by Clive Exton and George MacDonald Fraser. Based on the character created by Robert E. Howard, Red Sonya of Rogatino, who also inspired the comic book character of the same name.
The film introduces Brigitte Nielsen as the title character, with Sandahl Bergman, Paul Smith, Ronald Lacey and Arnold Schwarzenegger in supporting roles. As in Howard's Conan, Red Sonja takes place in the Hyborian Age, a fictional prehistoric time previously depicted in the films Conan the Barbarian (1982) and Conan the Destroyer (1984).
It was theatrically released in the United States on July 3, 1985, by MGM/UA Entertainment Co. Upon release, the film was a critical and commercial failure, grossing $6.9 million under a budget of $17.9 million.


== Plot ==
Sonja, a young, red-haired woman, is gang raped and left for dead by hundreds of soldiers of Queen Gedren, a despot who murdered Sonja's parents and her brother after Sonja had rejected the queen's sexual advances and scarred Gedren's face. Answering Sonja's cry for revenge, a nameless female spirit appears and gives her heightened sword-fighting skills on the condition that she never lie with a man unless he defeats her in fair combat. She trains under the warriors of a sword-master called "The Grand Master" and mistrusts nearly all other men. 
At a nearby temple, Varna, Sonja's sister, is in an order of priestesses preparing to banish a mystical light-powered relic, the Talisman, that created the world and all living things. The Talisman can be used and touched only by women – men vanish if they touch it – and has become too powerful to control. However, Gedren's army and her aide-de-camp Ikol intervene, slaughtering most of the priestesses and shield-maidens before they can imprison the Talisman in permanent darkness.
Varna watches Gedren steal the Talisman and throw the surviving priestesses in the vault that contained it, before escaping, but is mortally wounded. She is discovered by Kalidor, the Lord of Hyrkania, who goes to find Sonja and bring her to Varna. Before dying, Varna tells Sonja to find the Talisman and send it into darkness before it ravages the world with storms and earthquakes. Kalidor offers to accompany her, but she rejects the offer. 
After witnessing the Talisman in use, Sonja arrives in the now-ruined kingdom of Hablock. She meets the young, pig-headed Prince Tarn and his servant/bodyguard Falkon, who say Gedren used the Talisman to devastate Hablock when Tarn refused to surrender. Tarn announces that he will crush Gedren, and invites Sonja to be his cook. She politely declines before being told that Gedren is based in Berkubane, the land of Perpetual Night.
Arriving at the mountain gate, Sonja fights Lord Brytag after he refuses her passage for not paying him a "tender tribute". When she kills him and takes his key, his troops surround her; Kalidor, who has secretly followed her, attacks their rear, allowing Sonja to escape. Sonja comes across Tarn again, being tortured by bandits. She frees Tarn and kills the bandits with Falkon. They decide to travel together towards Berkubane, and Tarn takes Sonja's advice and learns good manners over sword practice. 
Gedren's wizard uses a large magic screen to show the approaching party; Gedren recognizes Sonja and orders that she be brought to the fortress unharmed. Using the Talisman to conjure a storm, she forces Sonja's group to take shelter in a watery cavern in Ictyan where Gedren's dragon-like “Killing Machine" is unleashed. Kalidor appears and helps Sonja blind the mechanical beast so they can escape.
Sonja accepts Kalidor's company after learning he is descended from the lords who entrusted the Talisman to the temple. He flirts with her, so she warns him that "no man can have me" unless he defeats her. Kalidor challenges her and they sword-fight to a draw, despite Tarn's attempts to hobble Kalidor. The party arrives at Cast