Return to Oz is a 1985 dark fantasy film released by Walt Disney Pictures, co-written and directed by Walter Murch. It stars Nicol Williamson, Jean Marsh, Piper Laurie, and Fairuza Balk as Dorothy Gale in her first screen role. The film is an unofficial sequel to the 1939 Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer film The Wizard of Oz, and it is based on L. Frank Baum's early 20th century Oz novels, mainly Ozma of Oz (1907). In the plot, an insomniac Dorothy returns to the Land of Oz to find it has been conquered by the wicked Nome King and his accomplice Princess Mombi. Dorothy must restore Oz with her new friends Billina, Tik-Tok, Jack Pumpkinhead, and the Gump.
In 1954, Walt Disney Productions bought the film rights to Baum's remaining Oz books to use in the television series Disneyland; this led to the proposed live-action film The Rainbow Road to Oz, which was never completed. Murch suggested making another Oz film in 1980. Disney approved the project as they were due to lose the film rights to the series. Though MGM was not involved in the production, Disney had to pay a large fee to use the ruby slippers created for the 1939 film. Return to Oz fell behind schedule during production, and, following a change of Disney management, Murch was briefly fired.
Return to Oz was released in theaters on June 21, 1985. It performed poorly at the box office, grossing $11.1 million in the United States on a $28 million budget, and received mixed reviews, with critics praising the effects and performances but criticizing the dark content and twisted visuals. However, it performed well outside the US, and has since acquired a cult following from fans of the Oz books who regard it as more faithful to L. Frank Baum's works. It received an Oscar nomination for Best Visual Effects.


== Plot ==
In the autumn of 1899, Dorothy Gale's Aunt Em and Uncle Henry take her to the sanatorium of Dr. Worley, concerned that her continued obsession with the Land of Oz is a sign of delusion. Worley and his assistant, Nurse Wilson, plan to administer electrotherapy to Dorothy, before lightning causes a power failure. Dorothy is rescued by a mysterious girl, who tells her Worley's machines damage patients, and the two escape. Nurse Wilson chases the girls into a river, where Dorothy floats away on a chicken coop, unable to save the other girl.
Dorothy awakens in Oz with her chicken, Billina, who can now talk. They follow a damaged yellow brick road to the Emerald City, which is in ruins and its citizens, including the Tin Man and Cowardly Lion, turned to stone. The Wheelers - people with wheels instead of hands and feet - seize them but they are saved by a mechanical man, Tik-Tok, who explains he was told by Scarecrow, the king of Oz, to await Dorothy's return. In search of Scarecrow they visit Princess Mombi in her castle, where she keeps her collection of "wearable" heads. After revealing that Scarecrow is being held prisoner by the Nome King, who is also responsible for the devastation of Oz, she imprisons the group, intending to take Dorothy's head for her collection.
Locked in a tower the group encounter Jack Pumpkinhead, who explains he was brought to life by Mombi's Powder of Life. Dorothy steals the powder from Mombi to construct a flying creature from furniture and the head of the Gump, a moose-like animal, which flies them across the Deadly Desert to the Nome King's mountain, pursued by Mombi and the Wheelers. The Gump eventually crashes on the mountain, where Dorothy is briefly reunited with Scarecrow, before the Nome King turns him into an ornament. The Nome King makes each of the group enter a room full of ornaments and make three guesses as to which is Scarecrow, but The Gump, Jack and Tik-Tok all fail and are turned into ornaments themselves.
Before Dorothy begins her turn the Nome King reveals he has her lost ruby slippers, which he used to conquer Oz, and offers to use them to send her home instead, but Dorothy refuses. With her third and final guess she select