Return from Witch Mountain is a 1978 American science fiction–adventure film and a sequel to Escape to Witch Mountain (1975) and the second film in the Witch Mountain franchise. It was produced by Walt Disney Productions. It was written by Malcolm Marmorstein and is based on characters created by Alexander Key, who also wrote the novelization of the film for Disney. Ike Eisenmann, Kim Richards, and Denver Pyle reprise their roles as Tony, Tia, and Uncle Bené—humanoid extraterrestrials with special powers including telepathy and telekinesis. The two main villains are played by Bette Davis as Letha Wedge, a greedy woman using the last of her money to finance the scientific experiments of Dr. Victor Gannon, played by Christopher Lee. It was the final film of actor Jack Soo, who died of cancer in January 1979.
In September 1978, the film was re-released to theaters on a double bill with Escape to Witch Mountain.
A television film called Beyond Witch Mountain was made in 1982.


== Plot ==
Tony and his sister Tia are in need of a vacation. Uncle Bené drops them off in their flying saucer at the Rose Bowl Stadium in Los Angeles, California, after which the siblings quickly become separated from each other. A man named Dr. Victor Gannon and his assistant Letha Wedge witness Tony using his powers to save Letha's nephew Sickle from certain death. Realizing that Tony has supernatural powers, Dr. Gannon drugs the boy with a tranquilizer shot and takes him back to their laboratory. There, Dr. Gannon successfully tests a new mind-control technology on him. Under its influence, Tony is completely hypnotized and does everything his kidnappers want him to do, including stealing gold from a museum exhibit and stopping Tia from finding them. With Tony at his robotic bidding, Dr. Gannon hopes to achieve recognition within the scientific community and worldwide power, while Letha merely wants a return on her investment.
The Earthquake Gang, a group of would-be tough boys Tia meets, are being chased by a group of rivals; Tia telepathically gets rid of them. The boys accept her into their ranks and help her look for her brother. They let her sleep in their secret hideout, where she has visions of Tony's location. Tia sees Tony at work with gold in a museum; he is controlled by a chip attached to his ear. He unstacks the gold but is followed by Mr. Yokomoto, the truant officer who thinks Tony should go to school, and unsuccessfully chases the doctor, aunt, nephew, and Tony in his minibus. While chasing them, Mr. Yokomoto destroys public property and loses his job.
Using her telepathy to find Tony, Tia discovers his captors' hideout but is caught by Sickle and placed in an anesthesia chamber by Gannon. Unable to move, Tia telepathically asks a goat to find the Earthquake Gang. The gang follows the goat back to the hideout and they free Tia as Tony, Letha, Sickle, and Victor drive to a plant to steal plutonium. Tia traces their location and describes it as a "big round ball". They come across Mr. Yokomoto, who tells them he lost his job and the only thing that works in the minibus is the radio. The news given about the plutonium plant stresses on the term "molecular flow".
Tia then asks Mr. Yokomoto to drive them to the location after she telekinetically repairs the minibus. After Victor and his gang reach the site, he shuts down the plant's cooling system. In exchange for turning it back on, he demands $5 million in cash (equivalent to $23 million in 2023), a jet to escape, and public acknowledgement of his achievements. The people working at the plant make arrangements for the money as soon as possible, but Tia reaches the site in time, where she and Tony battle to turn on the cooling system. Tia manages to turn it on, but Victor commands Tony to kill his sister. Tia realizes he is being controlled and destroys the device. Tony levitates Victor, Sickle and Letha to the ceiling with no way of getting down. Mr. Yokomoto drives the kids to the Rose Bow