The Return of Jafar (sometimes marketed as Aladdin: The Return of Jafar on re-release) is a 1994 American direct-to-video animated musical fantasy film produced by Walt Disney Pictures and Television. It is the first sequel to Disney's 1992 animated feature film, Aladdin, and serves as the pilot to the Aladdin animated television series (being an origin story of how the series began, as it took place before this film).
Released on May 20, 1994, in North America, it was the second Disney animated feature film sequel, after The Rescuers Down Under (1990), and the first Disney direct-to-video animated feature film. It also marked the first American direct-to-video animated feature film. Gilbert Gottfried, Jonathan Freeman, Scott Weinger, Frank Welker, Brad Kane and Linda Larkin reprise their roles from the first film, with Jason Alexander, Val Bettin, Liz Callaway and Dan Castellaneta joining in the cast.
Although the film received mixed-to-negative reviews, it sold 15 million VHS tapes, grossing more than $300 million on a budget of approximately $5 million, making it one of the best-selling films on home video.


== Plot ==
A year after Jafar's defeat, Aladdin and Abu have settled into the Palace of Agrabah with Princess Jasmine and her father, the Sultan. Still yearning for adventures, Aladdin foils a criminal group led by the dimwitted Abis Mal and returns their stolen loot to the citizens of Agrabah. Meanwhile, in the desert, Iago escapes from Jafar's lamp. Tired of being taken for granted, Iago refuses Jafar's demands to free him, and drops the lamp into a well. 
Iago flies to Agrabah, planning to return to the Palace by befriending Aladdin. During his first interaction with Aladdin and Abu, the three are attacked by Abis Mal and his henchmen, and Iago inadvertently saves Aladdin's life. In gratitude, Aladdin keeps Iago on the palace grounds, promising to speak with the Sultan on Iago's behalf. Abis Mal later finds Jafar's lamp in the well and frees him. Hindered by his incompetent new master, Jafar tricks Abis Mal into wasting his first two wishes, then enlists his help in taking revenge on Aladdin. Abis Mal agrees, also desiring revenge on Aladdin. 
Meanwhile, the Genie returns to the palace after traveling the world for one year, although his powers are diminished since he was freed from the lamp. At the evening banquet, the Sultan announces Aladdin as the new Royal Vizier. Rajah discover Iago in the garden and chases him into the banquet. Aladdin asks the Sultan to pardon Iago, but Jasmine is dismayed that Aladdin never confided in her. The Genie and Iago help them reconclie, and the Sultan, though remaining suspicious, temporarily pardons Iago and instructs Aladdin to watch over him. However, Jafar infiltrates the palace and tricks Iago to take Aladdin and the Sultan on a trip to the waterfall.
During the trip, the Sultan finally forgives Aladdin and Iago, but Jafar, having transformed into a gang of sorcerer horsemen riding dragon-winged horses, ambushes them, sending Aladdin into the waterfall while taking the Sultan, Jasmine, the Genie and Abu as prisoners. Aladdin eventually returns to Agrabah to warn Razoul but Jafar, posing as Jasmine, frames Aladdin for murdering the Sultan, and sentences him to death. Feeling guilty for being tricked, Iago frees the Genie, who saves Aladdin. Jafar now controls Agrabah, but Aladdin vows to stop him, and the Genie reveals that the only way to kill Jafar is to destroy his lamp. Iago chooses to leave, but not before Aladdin thanks him for his help.
Jafar demands that Abis Mal free him from the lamp with his third wish, just as Aladdin and his friends confront them to obtain the lamp. Jafar, in his Genie form, ambushes the group, knocks the Genie unconscious and shatters the Carpet. He splits open the Palace gardens, creating a pool of lava, and traps Aladdin on a sinking rock. Iago, having a change of heart after realizing that he has been repeatedly tricked by Jafar, returns and g