Aladdin is a fictional character in Disney's animated film Aladdin based on "Aladdin", a folk tale of Middle Eastern origin. He is voiced by Scott Weinger, while his singing voice is provided by Brad Kane. He also stars in the two direct-to-video sequels The Return of Jafar (1994) and Aladdin and the King of Thieves (1996), as well as the animated television series based on the film and the crossover Hercules and the Arabian Night. Mena Massoud played a live-action version of the character in a live action adaptation of the 1992 film.
When Aladdin is initially introduced, he is an 18-year-old man. He never received a formal education and has only learned by living on the streets of the city of Agrabah. He has to steal food in the local market in order to survive. When Aladdin was only an infant, his father, Cassim, left him and his mother to find a better life for his family.


== Development ==
One of the first issues that the animators faced during the production of Aladdin was the depiction of Aladdin himself. Director and producer John Musker explains: "In early screenings, we played with him being a little bit younger, and he had a mother in the story. [...] In design, he became more athletic-looking, more filled out, more of a young leading man, more of a teen-hunk version than before." He was initially going to be as young as 13, but that eventually changed to 18.
Supervising animator Glen Keane was inspired by various teen idols and movie actors in designing Aladdin's physique. The main inspiration for his appearance was originally Michael J. Fox in Back to the Future, but later changed to Tom Cruise. Keane based the movement of Aladdin's loose pants on rapper MC Hammer. Some have said this conception of the character makes him too contemporary, given the film's setting.


== Characteristics ==
Aladdin was drawn with large eyes, like those of other Disney heroes, to indicate innocence. The lineaments of his body are more free-flowing and more rounded than is usual for Disney heroes. He looks like a modern 18-year-old, except for his wardrobe. In the film, they often describe him as a street rat.
Aladdin is portrayed as quick-witted, and ultimately a caring person. Like most Disney male protagonists, he is a heroic young man who seeks to win the affection of many other characters, which demonstrates his insecurity. He is not above lying and stealing, though never with malicious intentions, but to survive. The biggest difference from the norm is that, unlike most youthful Disney heroes, he is a doer rather than a passive character.
As a street urchin, he wears a red fez hat, a purple vest, a baggy cream dhoti (with a patch covering a hole) and goes barefoot; he retains this appearance even in the animated series after his engagement to Jasmine.
His "Prince Ali" outfit is a white and gold ensemble with a flowing cape, and a large headpiece topped with a feather and a jewel.


== Appearances ==


=== Aladdin ===

In the first film, street rat Aladdin meets a girl in the marketplace. He falls deeply in love with her at first sight, but he gets into trouble when their meeting is interrupted by guards who arrest him. She reveals that she is actually Princess Jasmine. Despite Jasmine's efforts to demand the guards to release Aladdin immediately, they tell her that she must first deal with Jafar in order to free him.
In prison, Aladdin meets an old man (who is Jafar in disguise) who mentions a cave filled with treasure and that he needs Aladdin to enter it. The old man reveals a secret exit, and Aladdin escapes with him and follows him into the desert. He enters the Cave of Wonders, where he meets a sentient magic carpet and is commanded to only get a magic lamp. He gets it, But when his pet Abu picks up a giant gem, the cave begins to collapse. Aladdin, Abu, and the carpet are left in the cave. Abu delivers the lamp to Aladdin, and when he rubs it, a giant blue Genie appears, telling Aladdin he will fulfill three wishes. After