The following are some of the notable adaptations of the Robin Hood story in film and television.


== Robin Hood, English-language live-action films and television series ==


=== Theatrical shorts ===
1908: Robin Hood and His Merry Men, a silent film directed by Percy Stow, and the first appearance of Robin Hood on the screen.
1912: Robin Hood, a silent film starring Robert Frazer as Robin Hood.
1912: Robin Hood Outlawed, a British silent film starring A. Brian Plant as Robin Hood.
1913: Robin Hood, a silent film starring William Russell as Robin Hood.
1913: In the Days of Robin Hood, a British short film starring Harry Agar Lyons as Robin Hood.


=== Theatrical features ===
1922: Robin Hood, a silent film starring Douglas Fairbanks.
1938: The Adventures of Robin Hood, starring Errol Flynn as Robin Hood, his most acclaimed role, with Olivia de Havilland as Maid Marian, Eugene Pallette as Friar Tuck, Alan Hale, Sr. as Little John, Basil Rathbone as Guy of Gisborne, Claude Rains as Prince John, Patric Knowles as Will Scarlet, Melville Cooper as the Sheriff of Nottingham, and Ian Hunter as Richard I of England. Considered by many to be the best Robin Hood movie.
1946: The Bandit of Sherwood Forest, a film starring Cornel Wilde as Robert of Nottingham, Robin Hood's son; Robin Hood is played by Russell Hicks.
1948: The Prince of Thieves, a film starring Jon Hall as Robin Hood.
1950: Rogues of Sherwood Forest, a film starring John Derek as Robin Hood's son, Robin of Huntington.
1951: Tales of Robin Hood, a Robert Lippert film with Robert Clarke as Robin Hood
1952: The Story of Robin Hood and His Merrie Men, a feature from Walt Disney, starring Richard Todd as Robin, Joan Rice as Marian, Peter Finch as the Sheriff of Nottingham, James Hayter as Friar Tuck, James Robertson Justice as Little John, Hubert Gregg as Prince John, Elton Hayes as Alan-a-Dale, Anthony Forwood as Will Scarlet, as Patrick Barr as King Richard.
1954: The Men of Sherwood Forest, a Hammer Films feature starring Don Taylor as Robin.
1958: The Son of Robin Hood, in which the 'son' of Robin Hood, actually his daughter, is played by June Laverick.
1960: Sword of Sherwood Forest, a Hammer version, with Richard Greene reprising his television role.
1967: A Challenge for Robin Hood, a Hammer version, with Barrie Ingham as Robin Hood.
1969: Wolfshead: The Legend of Robin Hood, a Hammer version.
1976:  Robin and Marian, starring Sean Connery as Robin, Audrey Hepburn as Maid Marian, Nichol Williamson as Little John and Ronnie Barker as Friar Tuck.
1991: Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves, starring Kevin Costner as Robin, Morgan Freeman as Azeem, Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio as Marian, Christian Slater as Will Scarlet, Alan Rickman as the Sheriff of Nottingham, Mike McShane as Friar Tuck, Nick Brimble as Little John, and Michael Wincott as Guy of Gisbourne, with Sean Connery appearing as King Richard in the finale.
1991: Robin Hood, starring Patrick Bergin and Uma Thurman, a reinvention of the story pitting Robin Hood against different antagonists. The film was released theatrically in Europe, Australia and Japan, and on television on the Fox network in the United States and in South America.
1993: Robin Hood: Men in Tights, a film by Mel Brooks that spoofs both the 1938 and the 1991 films and recycles bits from his short-lived late-1975 Robin Hood TV sitcom When Things Were Rotten. Cary Elwes plays Robin in the movie. Richard Lewis plays Prince John while Roger Rees plays the Sheriff of Nottingham. Amy Yasbeck plays Marian, Eric Alan Kramer is Little John, and Matthew Porretta is Will Scarlet. Patrick Stewart appears in the ending, spoofing Sean Connery's take on King Richard.
2010: Robin Hood, a film directed by Ridley Scott and starring Russell Crowe as Robin, Cate Blanchett as Marian, Oscar Isaac as Prince John, Danny Huston as King Richard, Mark Addy as Friar Tuck, Matthew Macfadyen as the Sheriff of Nottingham, Kevin Durand as Little John, Scott Grimes as Will Scarlet, and