RoboCop is a 2014 American science-fiction action film directed by José Padilha and written by Joshua Zetumer, Edward Neumeier, and Michael Miner. It is a remake of the 1987 film and the fourth installment of the RoboCop franchise overall. The film stars Joel Kinnaman as the title character, with Gary Oldman, Michael Keaton, Samuel L. Jackson, Abbie Cornish, Jackie Earle Haley, Michael K. Williams, Jennifer Ehle, and Jay Baruchel in supporting roles. Set in 2028, a detective becomes critically injured and is turned into a cyborg police officer whose programming blurs the line between man and machine.
Sony Pictures' Screen Gems first announced a remake in 2005, but it was halted one year later. Darren Aronofsky and David Self were originally assigned to direct and write the film, respectively, for a tentative 2010 release. The film was delayed numerous times, and Padilha signed on in 2011. In March 2012, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Pictures (successor company to Orion Pictures until September 11, 2014, the studio that released the original film) announced an August 2013 release, but that was then changed to February 2014. The principal characters were cast from March to July 2012. Principal photography began in September 2012 in Toronto and Vancouver in Canada, with additional locations in Hamilton, in Canada, and Detroit in the United States.
RoboCop released in the United States on February 12, 2014, by Sony Pictures Releasing. The film received mixed reviews and was compared negatively to the original film.  It grossed $242.6 million against its $100–130 million budget.


== Plot ==
In 2028, multinational conglomerate OmniCorp revolutionizes warfare by introducing robotic peacekeepers capable of maintaining law and order. Led by CEO Raymond Sellars, the company moves to market its technology to domestic law enforcement. However, the Dreyfus Act forbids the deployment of militarized drones in the United States. Aware that most Americans oppose the use of military systems in their communities, Sellars asks Dr. Dennett Norton and his research team to come up with an alternative. The result is a proposal for a cyborg police officer. However, Norton informs Sellars that only someone stable enough to handle being a cyborg can be turned into one, and some candidates are rejected.
A Detroit police detective, Alex Murphy, is chosen after he is critically injured in a car-bomb explosion arranged by crime boss Antoine Vallon as revenge for Murphy's investigation into his activities. Norton persuades Alex's wife, Clara, to sign off on the procedure. Upon waking up and realizing the extent of his transformation, a frustrated Alex escapes, but Norton shuts him down and returns him to the lab. As Norton reveals to Alex that the only remnants of his human body are most of his head (excluding parts of the brain), respiratory organs, heart, and his right hand, a disgusted Alex asks for euthanasia. Norton reminds Alex about his wife's and son's patience, convincing him to live for their sake. During combat training with trainer Rick Mattox, Alex proves unable to compete with the standard OmniCorp drones efficiently. Norton alters Alex's programming to make him more efficient by letting drone programming take over his actions, making Alex think they are his. This reprogramming increases Alex's efficiency dramatically but leaves him less empathetic due to his human nature being bypassed. That night, Alex goes to his house to meet Clara and their son David.
Shortly before he is to be publicly unveiled, Alex has an emotional breakdown, forcing Norton to suppress his emotions. During the ceremony, RoboCop identifies and apprehends a criminal in the crowd. He goes on to reduce crime in Detroit dramatically, simultaneously increasing public support for repealing the Dreyfus Act. Aware that Clara has begun to ask questions, Sellars orders Norton to keep her away from her husband.
Clara nevertheless tells RoboCop of David's nightmares, social withdrawal, and u