The Rocky Horror Picture Show: Let's Do the Time Warp Again (also known as The Rocky Horror Picture Show Event and The Rocky Horror Picture Show) is a 2016 American musical comedy television film. It is a tribute to and remake of the cult classic 1975 film of the same name and directed by Kenny Ortega, using the original script written by Richard O'Brien and Jim Sharman.
Starring an ensemble cast led by Laverne Cox, the film premiered on the Fox network on October 20, 2016.


== Plot ==

The plot of the tribute is fundamentally identical to the original film, with some additional scenes wrapped around the film. These scenes show several people attending a theatrical showing of The Rocky Horror Picture Show, and subsequently are used to introduce some of the audience participation elements from the original film (such as throwing toilet paper on the line "Great Scott!").


== Cast ==
Laverne Cox as Dr. Frank-N-Furter, the Mad Scientist.
Victoria Justice as Janet Weiss, the Heroine
Ryan McCartan as Brad Majors, the Hero
Annaleigh Ashford as Columbia, the Groupie
Adam Lambert as Eddie, the Ex-Delivery Boy
Reeve Carney as Riff-Raff, the Handyman
Christina Milian as Magenta, the Domestic Servant
Staz Nair as Rocky Horror, Frank's Creation
Ivy Levan as Trixie, the Usherette
Ben Vereen as Dr. Everett von Scott, the Rival Scientist
Tim Curry as the Narrator/Criminologist (Curry famously portrayed Dr. Frank-N-Furter in the original film).
Jayne Eastwood as The Butler
Jeff Lillico as Ralph Hapschatt
Kelly Van der Burg as Betty Hapschatt-Munroe
Sal Piro as The Photographer


== Musical numbers ==


== Production ==

Plans for a remake at Fox date back to 2002, when a 2003 release date was under consideration to mark the 30-year anniversary of the play which spawned the film, a remake for which former Broadway producer Gail Berman would have been involved as co-producer. MTV had also planned a remake, set for 2008 and for which Berman was again tapped to produce, but those plans also fell through.
On April 10, 2015, it was announced that Kenny Ortega, best known for directing the film Hocus Pocus, the High School Musical trilogy, and Michael Jackson's This Is It, would direct the remake. On October 21, 2015, Emmy Award nominee Laverne Cox, best known for her role as prisoner Sophia Burset on Netflix's prison comedy-drama Orange Is the New Black, joined the cast to play Dr. Frank-N-Furter, the mad-scientist role originated by Tim Curry in the 1970s. Lou Adler, who produced the original film, also co-produced the remake, along with Gail Berman and Kenny Ortega; Ortega choreographed the film in addition to directing and producing. The creative team planned "to stick faithfully to the text and the score of the original but greatly re-imagine the story visually".
Much of the film was shot at Toronto's Casa Loma, being used for both Frank N. Furter's castle and the "Castle" movie theatre where the audience participation scenes and Ivy Levan's performance of "Science Fiction/Double Feature" were filmed. A theatre marquee was temporarily erected at the front entrance for these scenes.
An unreleased virtual reality experience was in development at the time. A 360-degree video camera rig can be seen in a behind-the-scenes video released by Fox during a marketing promotion. However, the project was stopped for unknown reasons.


== Release ==
The world premiere of the film was on October 18, 2016 at MIPCOM. The film premiered on Fox on October 20, 2016. The first 25 minutes of the film were screened at San Diego Comic-Con, as well as RKO Con 2, a Rocky Horror convention in Providence, Rhode Island.
The Rocky Horror Picture Show: Let's Do the Time Warp Again was released on DVD on December 6, 2016. An extended cut of the film was included featuring deleted scenes and the frequently excised song "Once in a While", as sung by Brad.


== Reception ==


=== Viewership ===
The movie drew 4.95 million viewers, with a 1.7 rating and a 6 share in the 18-49 d