Rough Night in Jericho is a 1967 American Western film in Techniscope, directed by Arnold Laven and starring  Dean Martin, George Peppard and Jean Simmons. The picture was based on the novel The Man in Black, written in 1965 by Marvin H. Albert, who also co-wrote the screenplay. The supporting cast includes John McIntire and Slim Pickens. Rough Night in Jericho is the only film in which Dean Martin portrayed the villain.


== Plot ==
A stagecoach bound for the town of Jericho is ambushed by Alex Flood, a lawman gone bad. Sharpshooting from a safe distance, Flood wounds the coach's driver, Ben Hickman, who is brought to town by the only passenger, a gambler named Dolan.
Hickman is a former Santa Fe lawman and Dolan was once his deputy. They now are partners in the stage line with Molly Lang, whom they have come to Jericho to meet. She was once Flood's lover when he came to Jericho to restore law and order, but now she hates the man who has seized power in the town.
Flood forms a lynch mob that hangs a man who dared confront one of his gang, then dynamites  the home of general store owner Ryan, another townsman who tried to organize a secret meeting. While the wounded Hickman recovers from the gunshot, Dolan takes a liking to Molly and decides to help her when Flood's men try to take over her stagecoach line. He gets into a violent fight with Yarbrough, one of Flood's men.
Dolan begins to create havoc in Flood's empire, stealing his cattle and causing explosions at Flood's ranch house, mill and gold mine. He is assisted by Hickman, Molly, Ryan and by Jace, the town's former deputy. Flood returns to Jericho seeking revenge. He shoots Hickman in the back, killing him. Dolan sets out after Flood for a final showdown in the hills. After Flood shoots Dolan in the arm, Dolan manages to throw his knife at Flood and kill him.


== Cast ==
Dean Martin as Alex Flood
George Peppard as Dolan
Jean Simmons as Molly Lang
John McIntire as Ben Hickman
Slim Pickens as Yarbrough
Don Galloway as Jace
Brad Weston as Torrey
Richard O'Brien as Frank Ryan
Carol Andreson as Claire
Steve Sandor as Simms
Warren Vanders as Harvey
John Napier as McGivern


== Production ==
Parts of the film were shot in Glen Canyon, Kanab Canyon, Paria and the Gap in Utah.


== References ==


== External links ==
Rough Night in Jericho at IMDb 
Rough Night in Jericho at the TCM Movie Database
Rough Night in Jericho
Rough Night in Jericho at the AFI Catalog of Feature Films
Rough Night in Jericho at Rotten Tomatoes