Run Silent, Run Deep is a 1958 American black-and-white war film starring Clark Gable and Burt Lancaster, based on the 1955 novel of the same name by Commander (later Captain) Edward L. Beach Jr. The picture was directed by Robert Wise and produced by Harold Hecht. The title refers to "silent running", a submarine stealth tactic. The story describes World War II submarine warfare in the Pacific Ocean, and deals with themes of vengeance, endurance, courage, loyalty, and honor, and how these can be tested during wartime.
In addition to Gable and Lancaster playing the leads, the film also features Jack Warden, and was the film debut of Don Rickles.
United Artists promoted Run Silent, Run Deep as a combination of the obsessiveness of Moby-Dick's Captain Ahab and the shipboard rivalry found in Mutiny on the Bounty.
Although based on a novel of the same name, and having many of the same characters, the plot of the film diverges from that of the book. Captain Beach, the author of the book, did not think highly of the film; he later said that the film company bought only the book title and was not interested in producing an accurate depiction of the theme and plot of his novel.
Considering the star names involved, the film's box-office reception was disappointing.


== Plot ==
A World War II US Navy submarine officer, Commander P.J. Richardson (Clark Gable), is determined to get revenge on the Japanese destroyer Akikaze and its captain, nicknamed "Bungo Pete", who has sunk four U.S. submarines in the Bungo Straits, including his previous command. He persuades the Navy Board to give him a new submarine command with the provision that his executive officer be someone who has just returned from active sea patrol. 
He single-mindedly trains the crew of his new boat, the USS Nerka, to return to the Bungo Straits and sink Bungo Pete, in spite of the Navy having expressly forbidden him from entering the Bungo Straits on this mission. Richardson's executive officer, Lieutenant Jim Bledsoe (Burt Lancaster) resents Richardson and the Navy leadership for denying him command of the Nerka, and worries about the safety of his boat and his crew. 
Richardson rigorously drills the crew on a rapid bow shot. Firing at the bow of an approaching ship is considered an act of desperation due to a vessel's extremely narrow profile. He bypasses one target, then takes on a Japanese destroyer with a bow shot. The crew figures out that Richardson is avoiding legitimate targets to enter the Bungo Straits undetected in direct violation of his mission orders.
They encounter a large Japanese convoy. After blowing up a cargo ship and engaging Bungo Pete, they are attacked by aircraft that had clearly been alerted to their presence and were waiting in ambush. They rapidly dive and barely survive depth charges. Three of the crew are killed, and Richardson suffers an incapacitating concussion. The submarine narrowly dodges what the crew mistakenly believes is one of their own torpedoes doubling back on them. By sending up blankets, equipment, and the bodies of the dead, they convince the Japanese that the submarine has been sunk. Bledsoe uses Richardson's injury to assume command and set course for Pearl Harbor.
While listening to Tokyo Rose proclaiming the sinking of their boat, several crewmen are mystified about how the Japanese are able to identify several of them by name. Bledsoe realizes that the Japanese have analyzed their floating trash. Since the Japanese believe the Nerka has been sunk, he returns to the Bungo Straits to fight the Akikaze, which the submarine sinks with a bow shot, only to be attacked again by a mystery torpedo. Richardson deduces that the Akikaze was not working alone to sink US submarines, but was in concert with a Japanese submarine. He orders the boat into a dive just seconds before a Japanese torpedo races by.
After a brief underwater standoff, Bledsoe realizes that with the Akikaze gone, the Japanese sub must defend its convoy. By attac