Runaway Train is a 1985 American action thriller film directed by Andrei Konchalovsky and starring Jon Voight, Eric Roberts, Rebecca De Mornay and John P. Ryan. The screenplay by Djordje Milicevic, Paul Zindel and Edward Bunker was based on an original 1960s screenplay by Akira Kurosawa, with uncredited contributions by frequent Kurosawa collaborators Hideo Oguni and Ryūzō Kikushima. The film was also the feature debut of both Danny Trejo and Tommy "Tiny" Lister, who both proceeded to successful careers as "tough guy" character actors.
The story concerns two escaped convicts and a female assistant locomotive driver who are stuck on a runaway train as it barrels through snowy desolate Alaska. Voight and Roberts were both nominated for Academy Awards. It received generally positive reviews from critics.
Kurosawa intended the original screenplay to be his first color film following Red Beard, but difficulties with the American financial backers led to its being shelved.


== Plot ==
Oscar "Manny" Manheim is a bank robber and hero to the convicts of Alaska's Stonehaven Maximum Security Prison. After two previous escape attempts, Manny is put in solitary confinement for three years. A court order compels Associate Warden Ranken to release him from solitary. Planning a third break out, Manny is forced to advance his plan to mid-winter after he is stabbed in the hand. Manny recruits young prisoner Buck McGeehy to help in the plan. After escaping from the prison via a sewer tunnel that opens near a freezing river, and a cross-country hike, the two arrive at a switchyard. After stealing railroad clothing, they board a train, consisting only of four locomotives.
The elderly railroad engineer, Al, has a fatal heart attack after starting the train and falls off the lead locomotive. He applies the brakes, but the locomotives overpower them; resulting in the brake shoes burning off. As the unmanned train accelerates, dispatchers Dave Prince and Frank Barstow are alerted to the situation. Barstow allows the train to reach onto the mainline, whilst trying to keep the tracks farther down the line clear. The runaway smashes the rear flatbed and caboose of another train pulling onto a siding. The collision damages the cab of the lead locomotive and jams the front door of the second engine, an old inoperable EMD F-unit, or "'A' Unit". Barstow's superior Eddie McDonald orders him to derail the train.
The train's horn then blows, alerting the authorities (and the two fugitives) someone else is aboard the train. Barstow has the maintainer cancel the derailment. Ranken concludes his two escaped convicts are fleeing by rail. Meanwhile, the fugitives are discovered by Sara, a locomotive hostler who explains she sounded the horn and the train is out of control. As jumping off the train at its current speed would be suicide, the only possible way to stop it would be to climb forward onto the lead engine and press its kill switch, a difficult feat due to the 'A' Unit's jammed front door and its obsolete rounded streamlined design's having no outside catwalk unlike the first, third, and fourth locomotives. They shut down the third and fourth locomotives by disconnecting the multi-unit cables.
Further ahead the train's present route is a tight curve near a chemical plant. Realising the fast moving train would derail at the curve causing damage to the plant with a possibility of major environmental disaster, the dispatchers divert the runaway onto a dead-end branch line, thus condemning all three on board to death, rather than risking a chemical explosion. Ranken forces Barstow to help him reach the train via helicopter. Manny tries forcing Buck into a suicidal scramble around the second engine's frozen nose. Sara's intervention on Buck's behalf results in an armed face-off between the convicts. Emotionally broken, all three slump into depression. Ranken's accomplice is lowered from a helicopter to the lead engine, but falls through the second engine's winds