The Running Man is a 1987 American dystopian action film directed by Paul Michael Glaser and starring Arnold Schwarzenegger, María Conchita Alonso, Richard Dawson, Yaphet Kotto, and Jesse Ventura. The film is set in a dystopian United States between 2017 and 2019, featuring a television show where convicted criminal "runners" must escape death at the hands of professional killers. It is very loosely based on the 1982 novel of the same title written by Stephen King and published under the pseudonym Richard Bachman.
The Running Man was a moderate box office success in the United States, grossing $38 million on its $27 million budget, but opened to mixed reviews from critics. A new movie adaptation of the novel, announced in early 2021, is in development at Paramount Pictures, with Edgar Wright directing and Michael Bacall writing the script.


== Plot ==
By 2017, the United States had become a totalitarian police state following a worldwide economic collapse. The government pacifies the populace through violent TV shows: its most popular is The Running Man, a broadcast game show, where criminals fight for their lives as "runners", fleeing from armed mercenaries called "stalkers", to earn a government pardon and tropical vacation.
Captain Ben Richards, a police helicopter pilot, observes an unarmed food riot in Bakersfield, California. He is ordered to open fire on them but refuses and is subdued by his colleagues. The media blames Richards for shooting 60 people and he is sent to a prison labor camp. 
18 months later, he escapes with two resistance fighters, Harold Weiss and William Laughlin, finding refuge in their camp, led by their leader Mick. The resistance group looks to hijack the ICS broadcast network's uplink facilities to expose the government's lies. Richards declines to help, and then heads to his younger brother Edward's apartment, only to find Amber Mendez, a composer, now occupies it, and that his brother has been sent to a "re-education" camp.
With Mendez's security travel pass, Richards takes Mendez hostage to flee to Hawaii but is arrested at the airport when Mendez alerts security. Meanwhile, Damon Killian, the founder and CEO of the ICS Corporation and the charismatic yet amoral creator, showrunner and host of The Running Man, becomes enamored by Richards' physical prowess and "notorious reputation" as a murderous madman. 
Killian coerces Richards to participate in the show, threatening to send Laughlin and Weiss instead. Mendez sees a news report stating that Richards shot people at the airport, which she knows is untrue. As The Running Man begins, Richards is rocket-sledded into the game zone, an abandoned part of Los Angeles, divided into four quadrants. Killian reneges on his deal and also sends Laughlin and Weiss into the game. They are first attacked by the stalker Sub-Zero, but Richards garrotes him with a section of razor-wire fencing, the first time a stalker has ever died on the show.
Mendez finds the original, unedited footage of the Bakersfield massacre before she is caught and sent into the game zone, joining the other three contestants. Killian then deploys two stalkers — Buzzsaw and Dynamo — to hunt the four runners.
Weiss realizes the underground resistance has been searching for the government/TV satellite uplink station in the game show arena. Dynamo electrocutes Weiss, just as he cracks the satellite's security, but Mendez has memorized the access code. Buzzsaw mortally wounds Laughlin, but Richards bisects Buzzsaw with his chainsaw. Dynamo is then incapacitated by Richards, who spares the stalker live on air. Laughlin tells Richards that the resistance has a hidden base in the arena before dying from his wounds. Off the air, Killian offers Richards a position as a stalker, which the enraged Richards refuses. 
While hunted by Fireball, a flamethrower-wielding stalker with a jetpack, Mendez finds the corpses of the show's alleged past "winners", revealing that the show's promises of pardons 