The Saboteur is an action-adventure video game developed by Pandemic Studios and published by Electronic Arts. It was released for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 in December 2009 and eventually on Steam on March 7, 2024. A mobile version of the game was developed and released by Hands-On Mobile for BlackBerry on January 21, 2010, for iOS on March 24, 2010. The game is set in German-occupied France during World War II, and follows Sean Devlin (based on William Grover-Williams), an Irish race car driver and mechanic, who joins the French Resistance to liberate Paris after his best friend is killed by Nazi forces.
Gameplay in The Saboteur combines driving, shooting, melee combat, and exploration. Players can make use of a variety of weapons and abilities to fight enemies or explore the environment, such as Sean's parkour skills, which allow him to climb high buildings in seconds to facilitate traversal. The game features an open world comprising Paris' various boroughs and the surrounding countryside. Initially, most of the map is occupied by German forces, symbolized by a black and white filter applied on the in-game map, as well as the environment itself. By completing main and side missions, each borough is slowly liberated, and the environment returns to its natural colors.
The Saboteur received generally mixed to positive reviews from critics. While it was praised for its visuals, sound design, setting, amount of content and entertaining gameplay, many criticized its repetitiveness, the storyline's execution, various technical issues, and the general unpolished feel. It also drew many comparisons to Velvet Assassin, a game with a similar premise released earlier in 2009, as well as the Grand Theft Auto and Assassin's Creed series for their similar gameplay elements. The Saboteur was the final title developed by Pandemic Studios before their closure in 2009.


== Gameplay ==

The Saboteur is an action-adventure game set in an open world environment and played from a third-person perspective. The player can explore Nazi-occupied Paris, some of the French countryside and parts of Germany. Color is a key element in the gameplay. Areas which are heavily controlled by the Nazis are represented in black and white, with the exception of the characters' irises, city lights, blood and blue symbols of the French Resistance, and various German symbols, which are bright red and complete with swastikas. In these areas, German soldiers are present in large numbers, making it far more likely that Sean will be detected in his rebellious activities. To "inspire" that district again, players must weaken the German forces occupying the area. In doing so, that district's citizens regain their hope, visually represented by the area becoming vibrant and full of color.  Germans in these areas will not be completely evicted but Sean has a higher chance of escaping them since they will no longer be so ubiquitous, and will primarily be centered on military bases, barracks, checkpoints, HQs, and other strategically important sites. In addition, the French people will play an active role in the struggle for colored zones. For example, if Sean gets into a fight with German soldiers in a colored area, allies like the French Resistance, the Maquis, and even passing French civilians will intervene against the occupiers.
Throughout the game, Sean can upgrade his abilities and arsenal via "Perks", such as improving accuracy with a sniper rifle, ammo count for all weapons, damage, and more. Perks are gained through actions, such as evading high-level alarms, sniping targets or demolishing a set number of German installations or vehicles with a certain requirement. The player also has the ability to scale buildings and run across rooftops, where sometimes British supply boxes can be found, or to reach a good sniper's view of the ground beneath. Garages are available to the player, which can save parked vehicles and repair damaged ones. The player