Saving Grace is an American crime drama television series that aired on TNT from July 23, 2007, to June 21, 2010. The show stars Holly Hunter as well as Leon Rippy, Kenny Johnson, Laura San Giacomo, Bailey Chase, Bokeem Woodbine, Gregory Norman Cruz and Yaani King. It is set in Oklahoma City—including numerous shots of local buildings and landmarks (such as the Oklahoma City National Memorial and the downtown skyline)—while much of the show was filmed in Vancouver and Los Angeles.
The theme song for the show was written and performed by American rapper-musician Everlast. The series is rated TV-MA in the United States for language, sexuality, and violence.


== Plot ==
The plot focuses on Grace Hanadarko (Holly Hunter), a heavy drinking and promiscuous Oklahoma City detective. In the series opener, Grace meets up with her "last-chance" angel when, after a night of drinking, she runs down and kills a pedestrian with her Porsche.
In desperation, she calls out for God's help; and a scruffy, tobacco-spitting man, who calls himself Earl (Leon Rippy), appears. Unfolding his wings to reveal his divine origins, Earl tells her that she is headed for Hell and asks if she is ready to turn her life over to God. When he finally disappears, the person she struck is also gone and it is as if the accident never happened. The only evidence left is a small amount of the victim's blood on her blouse, which she takes to her best friend, forensic science expert Rhetta Rodriguez (Laura San Giacomo), to analyze. With Rhetta's help, Grace discovers that the victim in her accident is actually a man awaiting execution on death row, Leon Cooley (Bokeem Woodbine). When she visits Cooley in prison, he reveals that he has also had encounters with Earl.
Passionate in her job, Grace investigates homicides and other major crimes with the other detectives in her squad, including Ham Dewey (Kenny Johnson), Butch Ada (Bailey Chase), Bobby Stillwater (Gregory Cruz), and Captain Kate Perry (Lorraine Toussaint).
Off the job, Grace drinks heavily, engages in numerous one-night stands and casual encounters with men, and is having an affair with her married police partner, Ham. Aside from her faults, Grace is an extraordinarily loving and generous person to those around her. In particular, she loves her young nephew, Clay (Dylan Minnette), and devotes a great deal of time to him.
Earl appears to Grace throughout the series, hoping she'll turn away from her more self-destructive tendencies and seek God's help. Saving Grace uses Grace's story to discuss the topic of faith and how difficult faith can be in such an imperfect world.


=== Oklahoma City ===
Series creator Nancy Miller grew up in Oklahoma City, and as a result Saving Grace includes many references to Oklahoma City and the state of Oklahoma. For instance, many of the characters' last names are the names of Oklahoma towns: Hanadarko is derived from Anadarko, Oklahoma; also Clay Norman, Ham Dewey, Butch Ada, Bobby Stillwater, and Captain Perry all have last names taken from Oklahoma towns and cities.
The 1995 bombing of Oklahoma City's Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building and its aftermath have been frequently incorporated into the plot and character development of the series. In the show, Grace's sister, who was also Clay's mother, died in the bombing.
In addition, local Oklahoma City eating establishment Johnnies Charcoal Broiler is frequently incorporated.
In an October 2007 trip to Oklahoma City by the cast, writers and producers, Oklahoma City Mayor Mick Cornett presented Miller and Hunter with Keys to the City.


== Episodes ==


== Cast and characters ==


=== Main ===
Holly Hunter as Det. Grace Hanadarko
Leon Rippy as Earl
Kenny Johnson as Det. Hamilton "Ham" Dewey
Bailey Chase as Det. Butch Ada
Bokeem Woodbine as Leon Cooley (seasons 1–2; guest season 3)
Laura San Giacomo as Rhetta Rodriguez
Gregory Norman Cruz as Det. Bobby Stillwater (seasons 2–3; recurring season 1)
Dylan Minnette as Clay Norman (season