Scent of a Woman is a 1992 American drama film produced and directed by Martin Brest that tells the story of a preparatory school student who takes a job as an assistant to an irritable, blind, medically retired Army lieutenant colonel. The film is a remake of Dino Risi's 1974 Italian film Profumo di donna, adapted by Bo Goldman from the novel Il buio e il miele (Italian: Darkness and Honey) by Giovanni Arpino. The film stars Al Pacino and Chris O'Donnell, with James Rebhorn, Philip Seymour Hoffman (credited as Philip S. Hoffman), Gabrielle Anwar, and Bradley Whitford in supporting roles.
The film was shot primarily around New York state, and also on location at Princeton University; at the Emma Willard School, an all-girls school in Troy, New York; and at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel and the Fieldston School in New York City.
The film had a limited theatrical release on December 23, 1992, expanding nationwide on January 8, 1993. It received generally positive response from critics and was a box office success. Pacino won the Academy Award for Best Actor for his performance and the film was nominated for Best Director, Best Picture and Best Screenplay Based on Material Previously Produced or Published. The film won three Golden Globe Awards, for Best Screenplay, Best Actor, and Best Motion Picture – Drama.


== Plot ==
Charlie Simms is a scholarship student at Baird, an exclusive New England preparatory school. A woman hires him to watch over her uncle, retired Army Lieutenant Colonel Frank Slade, over Thanksgiving weekend. Charlie accepts so he can buy a plane ticket home to Gresham, Oregon for Christmas. He discovers Frank to be a blind, highly decorated Vietnam War veteran who has become an alcoholic.
Charlie and another student, George Willis, Jr., witness three classmates set up a prank to humiliate the headmaster, Mr. Trask. After falling victim, Trask learns of the two witnesses and unsuccessfully presses them to name the perpetrators. He privately offers Charlie a bribe: a letter of recommendation to attend Harvard University. Trask sets a meeting of the school disciplinary committee to take place the Monday after the Thanksgiving weekend.
Frank unexpectedly takes Charlie on a trip to New York City, where they stay at the Waldorf-Astoria hotel. During dinner at the Oak Room, Frank reveals that the goals of his trip are to stay at a four-star hotel, to enjoy good food and wine, to visit his older brother, and to have sex with a "terrific" woman, then declares his intention to commit suicide. 
On Thanksgiving they pay an uninvited visit to the home of Frank's brother in White Plains, where the cause of Frank's blindness is revealed: while drunk, he juggled live grenades to show off for a group of younger officers, and one exploded. Frank deliberately provokes everyone at dinner, which ends after a confrontation with his nephew Randy.
As they return to New York City, Charlie mentions his problem at school. Frank advises Charlie to turn informant and go to Harvard, warning him that George will probably submit to Trask's pressure, so he should act and obtain a benefit before George does. While at a restaurant, Frank notices Donna, a young woman waiting for her date. He invites her to the dance floor, where they perform a tango. The evening ends after Frank visits with a high-class escort, completing the stated objectives of his trip.
Deeply despondent the next morning, Frank is uninterested in Charlie's suggestions for that day's activities until Charlie suggests test driving a new Ferrari. Frank talks the reluctant salesman into letting them take the car. Once on the road, Frank becomes depressed again, until Charlie allows him to drive. Frank is elated until he is pulled over by a police officer. Frank talks the officer into letting them go without revealing that he is blind.
After returning the car, Frank again becomes despondent and walks into traffic on Park Avenue, where he narrowly avoids being struck by multiple cars. 