Scream is an American murder mystery and slasher franchise that includes six films (and a seventh in active development), a television series, merchandise, and games. The first four films were directed by Wes Craven. The series was created by Kevin Williamson, who wrote the first two films and the fourth, and will return to direct the seventh film. Ehren Kruger wrote the third. The fifth and sixth installments were directed by Matt Bettinelli-Olpin and Tyler Gillett, with Guy Busick and James Vanderbilt serving as writers and Williamson returning as executive producer. Dimension Films produced the first four films. Spyglass Media Group took over the rights from the fifth film on with Paramount Pictures distributing. The film series has grossed over US$900 million at the global box office.
Neve Campbell, Courteney Cox, David Arquette, and Roger L. Jackson (who voices the various Ghostface killers) starred in the first five films. Cox and Jackson reprised their roles for the sixth and are the only cast members to feature in all films to date with Cox also being the only actress to appear in six consecutive films of a horror franchise. Campbell is reprising her role in the seventh film. Hayden Panettiere stars in the fourth and sixth films, while Melissa Barrera, Jenna Ortega, Mason Gooding, and Jasmin Savoy Brown star in the fifth and sixth. Jamie Kennedy and Liev Schreiber feature in the first three films, Skeet Ulrich stars in the first and cameos in the fifth and sixth installments, Marley Shelton appears in the fourth and fifth, and Jack Quaid stars in the fifth and cameos in the sixth. Additionally, Heather Matarazzo makes cameo appearances in the third and fifth films, as does Nancy O'Dell in the second, third and fourth. Having appeared in the iconic opening scene of the first film and on its poster, Drew Barrymore is strongly associated with the franchise. The series has also featured many notable actors making single-film appearances in supporting cast roles or as cameos.
Scream (1996), Scream 2 (1997), Scream (2022), and Scream VI (2023) received high praise from critics. Scream 3 (2000) received a more mixed response, as did Scream 4 (2011), Craven's final film; both were later reappraised and the fourth film was generally seen as a return to form for the series. Commercially, the first three films and the fifth and sixth were high performers at the box office, while Scream 4 had a disappointing domestic run. The film series has also been the recipient of several awards and nominations, including winning Best Movie twice at the MTV Awards (for Scream in 1996 and Scream VI in 2023).


== About ==
The first four films follow Sidney Prescott and her struggle against a succession of murderers who adopt the guise of Ghostface to stalk and kill their victims, the killers often motivated by revenge, jealousy, and seeking notoriety. Sidney receives support from town policeman Dewey Riley, tabloid reporter Gale Weathers, and film-geeks Randy Meeks and Kirby Reed, along with various other friends, romantic partners, and acquaintances that change as the series progresses. The fifth and sixth films follow Samantha Carpenter and her sister, Tara, who are targeted due to their connection to the original killers. Together with their friends Mindy and Chad Meeks-Martin (niece and nephew of Randy Meeks) and some of the original survivors (including Sidney, Gale, Dewey, and Kirby), they must contend with new Ghostface killers.
The first film, Scream, was released on December 20, 1996, and became the highest-grossing slasher film in the world until the release of Halloween (2018). The second entry, Scream 2, was released less than a year later on December 12, 1997. The third installment, Scream 3, was released on February 4, 2000, and was originally the concluding chapter of the series. Eleven years later, the franchise was revived with a fourth installment, Scream 4, which was released on April 15, 2011. An anthology television series 