Scrooged is a 1988 American Christmas fantasy comedy film directed by Richard Donner and written by Mitch Glazer and Michael O'Donoghue. Based on the 1843 novella A Christmas Carol by Charles Dickens, Scrooged is a modern retelling that follows Bill Murray as Frank Cross, a cynical and selfish television executive who is visited by a succession of ghosts on Christmas Eve intent on helping him regain his Christmas spirit. The film also stars Karen Allen, John Forsythe, John Glover, Bobcat Goldthwait, Carol Kane, Robert Mitchum, Michael J. Pollard, and Alfre Woodard.
Scrooged was filmed on a $32 million budget over three months in New York City and Hollywood from December 1987 to March 1988. Murray returned to acting for the film after taking a four-year hiatus following the success of Ghostbusters, which he found overwhelming, although he had a minor role in Little Shop of Horrors. Murray worked with Glazer and O'Donoghue on reworking the script before agreeing to join the project. The production was tumultuous, as Murray and Donner had different visions for the film. Murray described his time on the film as "misery", while Donner called Murray "superbly creative but occasionally difficult". Along with Murray's three brothers, Brian, John and Joel, Scrooged features numerous celebrity cameos.
The film's marketing capitalized on Murray's Ghostbusters role, referring to his encounters with ghosts in both films. Scrooged was released on November 23, 1988, and grossed over $100 million worldwide. The film received a positive response from test audiences, but was met with a mixed response upon its release from critics who found the film either too mean-spirited or too sentimental. It was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Makeup, but lost to the fantasy-comedy film Beetlejuice.
Since its release, Scrooged has become a regular television Christmastime feature, with some critics calling it an alternative to traditional Christmas films, and others arguing that Scrooged was ahead of its time, making it relevant in the modern day. It has appeared on various lists of the best Christmas films.


== Plot ==
IBC Television executive Frank Cross is pushing for an extravagant live production of A Christmas Carol on Christmas Eve, making everyone work throughout the holiday. After showing his team a gruesome TV spot for the show, Frank fires executive Eliot Loudermilk for disagreeing with him. 
Frank sends cheap IBC towels to most on his Christmas list, including his personal assistant Grace and his brother James, but the powerful and influential figures on his list get expensive VCRs. Seeing Frank's stress from the production, his boss Preston Rhinelander brings in consultant Brice Cummings for assistance, who secretly wants Frank's job.
The night before the show, Frank is visited by the ghost of his past mentor Lew Hayward, an also unloved miser who died from a heart attack seven years prior. Lew warns him three more ghosts will appear over the next day to help him avoid the same fate. Before he vanishes, the ghost contacts Claire Phillips, Frank's lost love from years ago. She comes to the network to talk to Frank, but when he's too busy she returns to her job at a homeless shelter.
As rehearsals start and Frank finishes lunch with Preston, he is visited by the Ghost of Christmas Past, appearing as a manic taxi driver. He reminds him how he used television to compensate for a cold and distant father and how he fell in love with Claire but lost her when he prioritized his television career over her. 
Afterwards, Frank goes to Claire's shelter to make amends. However, his attitude quickly sours and he shows his contempt for the homeless and the workers. After an uncomfortable interaction with some of the people at the shelter, he returns to the studio after telling Claire to "Scrape 'em off. If you wanna save somebody, save yourself."
The Ghost of Christmas Present arrives as an ethereal, sweet-voiced fairy who punches, kicks and slaps Fr