Pierre Antoine Muraccioli (born 4 June 1944), known professionally as Antoine, is a French pop singer, and also a sailor, adventurer, writer, photographer, and filmmaker.
As a musician, he was part of a new wave of mid-to-late 1960s French singer-songwriters, comparable in some ways to Bob Dylan or Donovan, but also evidencing some of the harder-edged garage rock style similar to the Rolling Stones, the Animals, and Them, and achieving some measure of pop stardom.
Beginning in the 1970s, he de-emphasized his musical endeavors (although he still writes and performs on occasion) in favor of a second career as a solo sailor and adventurer, which he has documented with many books and films.


== Early life ==
From a Corsican family, Antoine was born on 4 June 1944 in Toamasina in Madagascar, then part of the French colonial empire for which his father was working. As a child he lived in Saint Pierre and Miquelon, Marseille, and French Cameroons, returning to Metropolitan France for good in 1958. He graduated from the Lycée Champollion in Grenoble, excelling in advanced mathematics.
A 1964 stay in the United States exposed Antoine to the burgeoning folk music revival on the American east coast. He enrolled as an engineering student in the École Centrale Paris (from which he graduated in 1966), but also began traveling, playing his guitar, and singing in bistros for pocket money. He also began writing songs.


== Garage rock icon and later musical career ==
Signing with the Disques Vogue record label in 1965, Antoine released his first single "European Highway Number 4" (French: "Autoroute européenne numéro 4"). In 1966 he released the EP Antoine's Fever Dreams (French: Les Élucubrations d'Antoine) against the advice of his producer Christian Fechner and Vogue management. The record, with protest songs and exhibiting a garage band style in sharp contrast to the yé-yé style then in vogue, resounded with the less carefree and more militant spirit growing among French youth (this was two years before the May 1968 events in France). Along with figures such as Jacques Dutronc and Michel Polnareff (and to some degree Ronnie Bird and Herbert Leonard), Antoine thus led a new wave in French music. The title song was Antoine's biggest hit.
Antoine's first full LP album was Antoine Meets the Problems (French: Antoine rencontre les Problèmes), made with the existing band les Problèmes (who soon renamed themselves les Charlots and went on to long-term success, particularly in film). Some of the songs on the album were of Antoine and les Problèmes playing together, but many were by Antoine alone or les Problèmes alone, and many were previously released singles. One song on the album which became particularly associated with Antoine was "I'll Say What I Think and I'll Live How I Want" (French: "Je dis ce que je pense, je vis comme je veux")
Having achieved some mainstream popularity, Antoine fell more under the control of his producer, being given songs he did not always like and being pressured to change his musical style and even appearance. A 1968 song "Take Me Home" (French: "Ramenez-moi chez moi") suggested his disillusionment with being a musician, even as his popularity was spreading to Italy, where, after an initial hit, "Pietre" (Stones), still in the protest-song vein, he shifted
soon toward a soft pop style
and scored some successes like "Cannella" and "La tramontana".

In 1971, he recorded a single with celebrity television host Danièle Gilbert, "'Scuse Me, Mister Antoine" (French: "S'cusez-moi M'sieur Antoine") and in 1973 he appeared in the revival of the 1921 operetta Dédé, singing alongside Georgette Plana.
Although he has never stopped writing and performing music, in 1974 he shifted his focus to the sea and to other pursuits.


=== Rivalry with Johnny Hallyday ===
In "Antoine's Fever Dreams" (the title song to the EP of the same name), Antoine, who represented with his emblematic long hair and flowered shirts a new look and new s