Sense and Sensibility is the first novel by the English author Jane Austen, published in 1811. It was published anonymously; By A Lady appears on the title page where the author's name might have been. It tells the story of the Dashwood sisters, Elinor (age 19) and Marianne (age 16½) as they come of age. They have an older half-brother, John, and a younger sister, Margaret (age 13).
The novel follows the three Dashwood sisters and their widowed mother as they are forced to leave the family estate at Norland Park and move to Barton Cottage, a modest home on the property of distant relative Sir John Middleton. There Elinor and Marianne experience love, romance, and heartbreak. The novel is set in South West England, London, and Sussex, probably between 1792 and 1797.
The novel, which sold out its first print run of 750 copies in the middle of 1813, marked a success for its author. It had a second print run later that year. It was the first Austen title to be republished in England after her death, and the first illustrated Austen book produced in Britain, in Richard Bentley's Standard Novels series of 1833. The novel has been in continuous publication since 1811, and has many times been illustrated, excerpted, abridged, and adapted for stage, film, and television.


== Plot summary ==
Country gentleman Henry Dashwood dies, unable to pass on the estate where he lived with his second wife and their three daughters. Norland Park is entailed to be inherited through the male line to John Dashwood, Henry's son by his first marriage, and thence to Harry Dashwood, the four-year-old son of John. On his deathbed, Henry extracts a promise from John to take care of his half-sisters,  Elinor, Marianne, and Margaret. But John's wife, Fanny, persuades her husband to renege on the promise, appealing to his concerns about diminishing his own son Harry's inheritance, despite the fact that John is already independently wealthy and owns another lavish home in London. Henry's love for his second family is also used by Fanny to arouse her husband's jealousy, and persuade him not to help his sisters financially. He gives them nothing and the family must decide how to survive on a pitifully small income. 
John and Fanny move in as the new owners of Norland Park, where the Dashwood women are treated as unwelcome guests by Fanny. Mrs. Dashwood urgently seeks somewhere else to live. Meanwhile, Fanny's brother, Edward Ferrars, visits Norland and his kindness immediately endears him to the Dashwood family. Although their attraction is palpable, Edward and Elinor's budding romance is never spoken of directly between them, but others take notice. Fanny offends Mrs. Dashwood by implying that Elinor is unworthy and must be motivated by his expectations of coming into money.
Mrs. Dashwood moves her family to Barton Cottage in Devonshire, on the estate of her cousin, Sir John Middleton. Their new home is modest, but they are warmly received by Sir John and welcomed into local society, meeting his wife, Lady Middleton, his mother-in-law, the garrulous but well-meaning Mrs. Jennings, and his friend, Colonel Brandon. Colonel Brandon is attracted to Marianne, and Mrs. Jennings teases them about it. Marianne is irritated by her meddling, as she considers the thirty-five-year-old Colonel Brandon an old bachelor, incapable of falling in love or inspiring love in anyone.

While out for a walk, Marianne gets caught in the rain, slips, and sprains her ankle. John Willoughby sees the accident and assists her, picking her up and carrying her to her home. Marianne is dazzled by his good looks and similar tastes in poetry, music, art, and romance. His frequent attentions and Marianne's effusive behavior lead Elinor and Mrs. Dashwood to suspect that the couple are secretly engaged. Elinor cautions Marianne against her unguarded conduct, but Marianne refuses to check her emotions. Willoughby engages in several intimate activities with Marianne, including taking her unchaperoned 