Serial Mom is a 1994 American satirical black comedy slasher film directed and written by John Waters and starring Kathleen Turner as the title character along with Sam Waterston as her husband, and Ricki Lake and Matthew Lillard as her children. Patty Hearst, Suzanne Somers, Joan Rivers, Traci Lords, and Brigid Berlin make cameo appearances in the film.
Serial Mom was released theatrically in the United States on April 13, 1994, to mixed to positive reviews from critics, but was a box office bomb, grossing nearly $8 million from a $13 million budget. The film is widely regarded as a cult classic.


== Plot ==
Beverly Sutphin appears to be an unassuming upper middle class housewife living with her dentist husband Eugene and their teenage children, Misty and Chip, in the suburbs of Baltimore. She is secretly a serial killer.
Detectives Pike and Gracey question the family about the vulgar telephone harassment of their neighbor. Beverly is later revealed to be the perpetrator. Math teacher Paul Stubbins criticizes Chip's interest in horror films. Beverly runs over Stubbins with her car. Misty is upset when Carl Pageant stands her up for a date. Beverly spots Carl with another girl at a swap meet and fatally stabs him with a fire poker.
Eugene discovers Beverly's serial killer memorabilia beneath their mattress, which includes recordings from Ted Bundy in the week of his execution. Chip tells the family about his friend Scotty's suspicions. Beverly departs at that point. Beverly intends to kill Ralph and Betty Sterner for calling Eugene to treat the former's toothache on a day Eugene and Beverly planned to spend birdwatching and critiquing Eugene's requests for perfect dental health. She stabs Betty with scissors borrowed from Rosemary Ackerman and pushes an air conditioner from their window onto Ralph. The rest of the family and the police arrive at Scotty's house.
Police follow the Sutphins to church as Beverly is named as the prime suspect in the Sterners' murders. The service abruptly ends when everyone flees in panic after Beverly sneezes, during which she escapes as police attempt to arrest her. She hides at the video store where Chip is employed. Beverly follows Jenson home and fatally strikes her with a leg of lamb as she watches Annie. Scotty witnesses the attack nearby. Beverly immolates Scotty during a rock concert. The Sutphin family arrive as Beverly is arrested.
Beverly's trial becomes a media sensation. Beverly's lawyer claims that she is not guilty by reason of insanity, but is promptly dismissed. Beverly systematically discredits every witness against her by exploiting their own vices, while Hodges is too high to provide credible testimony. The courtroom is distracted by the arrival of Suzanne Somers, who has been cast as Beverly in a television film.
Beverly is acquitted of all charges. She expresses contempt at a particular juror for wearing white shoes after Labor Day. Beverly follows her to a payphone and fatally strikes her with the receiver. Somers angers Beverly into an outburst while attempting to pose for a photo op. The juror's body is then discovered.


== Cast ==


== Production ==
Actresses who were considered for the role of Beverly Sutphin before Turner was cast included Meryl Streep, Kathy Bates, Glenn Close, and Julie Andrews 
Films by Waters' creative influences, including Doris Wishman, Otto Preminger, William Castle, and Herschell Gordon Lewis, are seen playing on television sets throughout the film.
The audio for Ted Bundy in one of Beverly's correspondences with the jailed killer is the voice of Waters.


=== Post-production ===
The film had a troubled post-production, marked by conflict between Waters and Savoy Pictures. In his 2019 book Mr. Know-It-All, Waters states that studio executives who viewed an early cut objected to its violence and dark comedy. They demanded the film be substantially re-edited and given a different ending, which Waters refused to do.: 73–74  Acrimony between the t