The Shaggy D.A. is a 1976 American comedy film and a sequel to The Shaggy Dog (1959) produced by Walt Disney Productions. It was directed by Robert Stevenson and written by Don Tait. As with the first film in the series, it takes some inspiration from the Felix Salten novel, The Hound of Florence.
It stars Dean Jones as the adult Wilby Daniels, Suzanne Pleshette, Tim Conway, Keenan Wynn, Dick Van Patten, Jo Anne Worley and Shane Sinutko. It was Stevenson's final directorial effort.


== Plot ==
Wilby Daniels is now a successful attorney who is married to Betty, and they have a son named Brian. Returning to the town of Medfield from a vacation, the family discovers that they have been robbed, and Wilby blames district attorney John Slade, who is reputed to have connections with organized crime, particularly with warehouse owner Edward "Fast Eddie" Roshak. After being robbed a second time later that night (along with their Navy admiral neighbor, Gordon C. Brenner), Wilby vows to run for district attorney to make his town safe again.
Meanwhile, the two thugs who robbed the Daniels', Freddie and Dip, observe the Borgia ring at a museum and assume it might fetch a large sum, so they steal it. The ugly ring can only be pawned off to ice cream salesman Tim, who owns an Old English Sheepdog named Elwood. Tim figures he will give the ring to his girlfriend Katrinka, a local roller derby star and pastry assistant.
Wilby hears a report of the ring being stolen. Terrified, he reveals his former shape-shifting secret to his wife, who does not believe him; he says that if the inscription on the ring ("In canis corpore transmuto") is spoken aloud he will turn into a shaggy dog. Moments before Wilby's live television debut, Tim discovers the inscription on the ring and reads it aloud, causing Elwood to disappear – only to reappear as he takes over Wilby's body. Brian notices that shaggy hair is growing all over Wilby, who reacts in horror, as realizing he is turning into Elwood. He rushes from the house and cameras in his dog form and confounds Tim, who cannot understand why Elwood can speak. When the spell wears off, Wilby regains his human form and is determined to find the ring as he faces the prospect of being a candidate in the public eye, never knowing when he might turn into a dog.
His fears come true as Katrinka receives the ring and reads the inscription, just as Wilby is giving a public address at a ladies garden club. Realizing he is tranforming again, Wilby creates a riot while trying to escape. Tim again finds him in Elwood's form and is convinced that his talking dog could make millions; when Tim wanders off momentarily, Wilby returns to his human form, leaving a silent Elwood to confound Tim further. Meanwhile, Raymond, an agent Slade, gets suspicious, wondering why Wilby keeps disappearing.
Desperate to find the ring, the hunt leads to Katrinka, who seems to have lost it in a vat of cherry pie filling intended for a Slade fundraiser. Offering a reward to whoever finds the ring, Katrinka and her colleagues look for it, eventually escalating into a pie fight. During it, the thugs recover the ring and attempt to pass it off to an undercover police detective. Once again in the hands of the museum, the inscription is read aloud as a point of reference; at the police station, Wilby (who arrived to confirm the ring had been recovered) finds himself turning into Elwood once again. This time, Raymond puts two and two together after overhearing the museum's curator explaining the curse and how his predecessor told him a story of a young man that turned into a sheepdog years before.
Slade is informed of this, is dubious at first, and then invites Wilby to his office to test out the theory. He advises Wilby to withdraw his campaign. Wilby refuses and says that after being elected, he will have Slade investigated regarding his criminal connections. Slade then reads the inscription. Thrilled to see Wilby turn into the dog, Slade makes a cal