The Shaggy Dog is a 2006 American science fantasy family comedy film directed by Brian Robbins and written by The Wibberleys, Geoff Rodkey, Jack Amiel, and Michael Begler. It is the fifth overall installment of the titular franchise, and is a reboot of the 1959 film of the same name and its 1976 sequel The Shaggy D.A., both of which were loosely based on the 1923 novel The Hound of Florence by Felix Salten. The original film had a character named Wilby Daniels transforming into an Old English Sheepdog after putting on a magic ring, whereas the remake presents a character named Dave Douglas transforming into a Bearded Collie after getting bitten by a sacred dog. It stars Tim Allen, Robert Downey Jr., Kristin Davis, Danny Glover, Spencer Breslin and Philip Baker Hall.
The Shaggy Dog was released on March 10, 2006, by Walt Disney Pictures. It received negative reviews from critics, audience and fans of the original film series and 1994 remake alike, and grossed $87 million against its $50 million budget, becoming a box office flop.


== Plot ==
In Los Angeles County, Deputy district attorney Dave Douglas is prosecuting social studies teacher and activist Justin Forrester for firebombing the pharmaceutical corporation Grant and Strictland. Forrester denies this, but claims that the corporation has been engaging in illegal animal experimentation. This distances Dave from his daughter Carly, one of Forrester's students. As Dave is also a workaholic, his relationships with his wife Rebecca and son Josh are strained.
Geneticists working for company president Lance Strictland, led by Dr. Kozak, have stolen Khyi Yang Po, a 300-year-old sacred dog (a Bearded Collie) from a Tibetan monastery. Khyi Yang Po's genetic sequence, when isolated and put into a vaccination, alters the cells and DNA of a victim.
Carly brings Khyi Yang Po, whom she calls 'Shaggy', home. Returning from work, Dave takes Khyi Yang Po out in the garage, then the dog runs to get the newspaper. The dog gives him his newspaper, and Dave reaches for it, only to be bitten on the hand by Khyi Yang Po. Khyi Yang Po's saliva and cells infect Dave and is taken to be tested for rabies and the tests came back negative. Over the next days, Dave realizes that he uncontrollably transforms into a sheep dog like Khyi Yang Po when prompted by distractions and activities typical of a dog, such as a stick thrown through the air and chasing cats. These transformations can be reversed by sleeping, but Dave's human absence from his family further strains his relationships. During this time, his family, unaware of Dave's condition, continue housing Dave as a dog, thinking it is Khyi Yang Po. Dave learns just how little he understands his family and resolves to make amends.
In the ongoing trial, Forrester testifies seeing the animals behaving like dogs and the presence of a bearded collie he identifies as a giant sheepdog, which sparks Dave's suspicions about Grant and Strictland. When his dog-like behavior annoys the judge, Dave is removed from the case. Seeking answers to his transformation, Dave heads to Grant and Strictland. He has a homeless man help him transform so that he may sneak in through a vent. Hidden in the laboratory, Dave witnesses Kozak injecting Lance Strictland with a drug that will paralyze him for months, giving Kozak time to usurp control of the company. Viewing security cameras, Kozak and his minions realize that Dave can transform into a copy of Khyi Yang Po.
When Dave returns home, still in his canine form, he overhears a conversation between Carly and Josh that he and Rebecca may be splitting up. After hearing this, Dave knocks over a Scrabble game and uses the letters to reveal his identity to his kids. While getting out of the house, Dave is tased by Kozak's minions. His kids attempt to save him, but end up picking up Khyi Yang Po instead and rush to their mom at work to report recent events.
Dave is taken to the laboratory to be euthanized, but Kozak has a court 