Shall We Dance? (Japanese: Shall we ダンス?, Hepburn: Sharu wī dansu) is a 1996 Japanese romantic comedy-drama film directed by Masayuki Suo. Its title refers to the song "Shall We Dance?" which comes from Rodgers and Hammerstein's The King and I. It inspired the 2004 English-language remake of the same name.


== Plot ==
The film begins with a close-up of the inscription above the stage in the ballroom of the Blackpool Tower: "Bid me discourse, I will enchant thine ear", from the poem Venus and Adonis by William Shakespeare. As the camera pans around the ballroom giving a view of the dancers, a voice-over explains that in Japan, ballroom dancing is treated with suspicion.
Successful salaryman Shohei Sugiyama (Kōji Yakusho) owns a house in the suburbs, a devoted wife, Masako (Hideko Hara), and a teenage daughter, Chikage (Ayano Nakamura), and works as an accountant for a firm in Tokyo. Despite these external signs of success, however, Sugiyama begins to feel as if his life has lost direction and meaning and falls into depression.
One night, while coming home on the Seibu Ikebukuro Line, he spots a beautiful woman with a melancholic expression looking out from the window of a dance studio: Mai Kishikawa (Tamiyo Kusakari), a well-known figure on the Western ballroom dance circuit. Becoming infatuated with her, he decides to take lessons in order to get to know her better.
Sugiyama’s life changes once his classes begin. Rather than Mai, his teacher is an older woman, Tamako Tamura (Reiko Kusamura), who becomes an important mentor to him. He meets his classmates: Tōkichi Hattori (Yu Tokui) who joined to impress his wife, and Masahiro Tanaka (Hiromasa Taguchi) who joined to lose weight. He also meets Toyoko Takahashi (Eriko Watanabe), another student. He further discovers that one of his colleagues from work, Tomio Aoki (Naoto Takenaka), frequents the dance studio. Tomio, who is balding and mocked at work for his rigid ways, is revealed to be secretly a long-haired (via a wig) ballroom dancer. Though distant from her, the classes increase his infatuation with Mai. His secret thus becomes twofold: not only must he hide the lessons from his wife, he must also hide them from his friends and colleagues as it is considered embarrassing according to traditional Japanese customs to participate in Western ballroom dance.
Later, after being rebuffed by Mai, Sugiyama discovers to his surprise that his passion for ballroom dance has survived her rejection. Indeed, dance, rather than Mai, has given Sugiyama the meaning in life that he was looking for.
Masako, noticing his odd behavior, believes he is having an affair, prompting her to hire a private detective to follow him. Meanwhile, along with his classmates, Sugiyama enters an amateur competition, only to find out that his wife, having finally learned the truth from the detective (who has now become a devoted fan of ballroom dancing), is in the audience. Surprised by this, he stumbles and nearly knocks his dance partner to the floor. Though he successfully catches her, he accidentally rips the skirt of her dress off. Both leave the contest.  Sugiyama later learns that Aoki was disqualified. When Aoki is ridiculed at work after his colleagues read of his failure in the newspaper, Sugiyama stands up and tells them not to mock something they don't understand.
At home, Sugiyama tells his family that he has given up dance. A little while later, he is visited by Toyoko and Aoki, who try to get him to return and tell him to come to a farewell party for Mai, who is leaving for Blackpool. They hand him a letter from Mai in which she explains her own past failure at Blackpool, attributing it to her dancing alone and not truly trusting her partner and how working with Sugiyama and Toyoko reinspired her to try again.  Sugiyama at last has a real conversation with Masako about what happened, but angrily tells her he is through with dance, even when she asks him to teach her. But he gives in and they reconc