Simon Birch is a 1998 American comedy-drama film loosely based on the 1989 novel A Prayer for Owen Meany by John Irving and written for the screen and directed by Mark Steven Johnson in his directorial debut. The film stars Ian Michael Smith, Joseph Mazzello, Jim Carrey, Ashley Judd, and Oliver Platt. It omitted much of the latter half of the novel and altered the ending.
The film does not share the book's title at Irving's request; he did not believe that his novel could successfully be made into a film. The name "Simon Birch" was suggested by him to replace that of Owen Meany. The opening credits of the film state that it was "suggested by" Irving's novel.  The main plot centers on 12-year-old Joe Wenteworth and his best friend Simon Birch, who was born with dwarfism.


== Plot ==
An adult Joe Wenteworth visits the grave of his late friend, Simon Birch. He narrates over as the film transitions to their childhood. Simon is the smallest child in the history of Gravestown. His callous parents show little to no concern for his wellbeing. He loves baseball even though he almost never gets to play during Little League, and when he does, it's only to get a walk due to his small strike zone. Joe's mother, Rebecca, got pregnant with Joe while she was on a train. Her refusal to reveal the identity of the father has resulted in Joe's reputation as the town's bastard child.
One day, Rebecca invites drama teacher Ben Goodrich over for dinner. He meets the boys and gifts Joe a stuffed armadillo. Simon takes an instant liking to Ben, but Joe is initially standoffish, as he just wants to find his father. Rebecca invites Ben with them to church one Sunday morning. During church announcements, Simon expresses his beliefs to Reverend Russell that church necessities and activities are irrelevant to glorifying God. Sunday school teacher Miss Leavey sits him in a corner until he apologizes. She berates him, saying he doesn't belong in church. Outraged among hearing this, Rebecca argues with Leavey as she comes to pick up Simon, calling out her insecurities towards Simon's faith.
During baseball, Simon hits the perfect pitch. It becomes a foul ball that hits Rebecca in the head, killing her. Simon gives Joe his prized baseball cards as an apology, to which Joe gives Simon the stuffed Armadillo as forgiveness. Joe's grandmother informs Joe that her own death is imminent due to her age, and there must be a plan for him once her time comes, as Rebecca never told anyone who Joe's father was, even in confidence. Simon believes that Joe's father may have taken the baseball that killed Rebecca. Deeming their gym teacher a fitting candidate, they break into his office to see if he has it, but it isn't there. Overwhelmed with despair, Joe vandalizes the office. The police chief agrees to release them if they go to the children's retreat over winter break. Ben picks them up and takes them for ice cream. Simon tells Ben of his destiny to be a hero but admits that he doesn't know what that will imply. However, he fears it could happen momentarily, and might miss it.
A Christmas pageant with a Nativity play is organized by Leavey. Simon criticizes Leavey's poor creative decisions, resulting in Russell confiscating Simon's baseball cards until the pageant is over. The play proves disastrous as the turtle dove costumes look like winged mutant turtles, the wise men cannot remember "We Three Kings", and Howard's acrophobia causes him to forget his lines. It soon escalates to violent chaos when Simon, incited by seeing Marjorie's cleavage, makes a move on her. Howard's harness breaks due to his weight, swinging him back and forth repeatedly, eventually vomiting on Leavey. Russell suspends Simon from the church, expels him from the winter retreat, and refuses him the return of his baseball cards. Simon admits he wants to know God's purpose for him. As the church departs for the retreat, Simon comes by the church to say goodbye to Joe. Later on, he breaks into Russel