Punk's Dead (also known as Punk's Dead: SLC Punk 2) is a 2016 American comedy-drama film written and directed by James Merendino. It is a sequel to the 1998 film SLC Punk! and was released on February 11, 2016.
Set 19 years after the events of the first film, the plot deals with unresolved conflict and family strain, and also has elements of a coming-of-age story. Michael Goorjian reprises his role of Heroin Bob; acting as a narrator for the film, both in voice-over as well as sporadically intercut scenes of him in the afterlife.


== Plot ==
Ross is the child of Trish and Heroin Bob, having been conceived shortly before Bob's drug overdose. He has been raised alone by Trish, above her steam punk curio and clothing boutique. As a result of his mother's adoration of the macabre, as well as his immersion in the concept of death from a young age (his father's), he develops into a Victorian Goth. Despite his obvious affiliation, Ross insists that he is part of no social cliques, which is stressed even further when he states that despite a lifelong abstinence from drugs, alcohol, and sex he is not Straight Edge either.
Upon having his heart broken by his first girlfriend, Ross attempts to drown his sorrows, as well as his lifelong espousal that romantic love is trivial, with the aide of beer and liquor. In an attempt to further help him take his mind off of things, he also begrudgingly goes on a road trip to a punk rock concert with his only friend, Crash, as well as Crash's friend Penny. Ross has a low opinion of punks, despite his association with them, as Crash and Penny are punk rockers like his father.
As Ross is on the road with Crash and Penny, the situation is made known to Trish by Crash's mother. After being told that her only son was being extremely emotional and went to get drunk with Crash and go to a punk show, Trish becomes consumed with genuine concern for her son. She also has overwhelming anxiety, being that the last time she saw Bob alive, he was crying and drunk. Bob also notes distress from the afterlife by pointing out that alcoholism runs in the men in his family, and it's never turned out well for any of them.
Trish calls around to see if anyone has seen Ross and ultimately enlists the help of John and Sean, former friends of his Bob's, to help find him. In the 19 years that have transpired, both men have changed drastically from the first film. John has become the frontman of a black metal band as well as owning a black metal record store. He also no longer goes by the nickname of "John the Mod", instead going by his stage name of Johnny Jackyll. Sean voluntarily checked himself into a psychiatric rehabilitation center after the events of the first film left him homeless and psychologically fractured as a result of his drug use and has amazingly come into the employment of a Utah state senator since his release, though still retaining his punk mentality and love of punk music.
After some debate as to where Ross may have gone, Sean leads them in the direction of the concert that he believes they may be going to, and they are picked up by Eddy, another of Bob's old friends. Tensions flare between Sean and Eddy en route concerning the latter's profession. Eddy has become the proprietor of a very successful strip club as well as owning and operating a "tease" website, that is modeled after Suicide Girls. Sean accuses Eddy of being a parasite who exploits women for profit and says he is no different than a common pimp.
Along the way to the show, Ross is made aware of his outwardly callous and pompous attitude towards others by Penny, which unsettles him, and he decides to change. He spots a man by the side of the road and has Penny pull over to offer him a ride, showing a consideration for others. They approach the man, a Rastafarian named William, who accepts their offer and proceeds to tell them that he is standing there as a result of a "pick up.” As Ross is preoccupied, William opens his backpack and reveals