Slums of Beverly Hills is a 1998 American comedy-drama film written and directed by Tamara Jenkins, and starring Natasha Lyonne, Alan Arkin, Marisa Tomei, David Krumholtz, Kevin Corrigan, Jessica Walter, and Carl Reiner. The story follows a teenage girl (Lyonne) struggling to grow up in 1976 in a lower-middle-class nomadic Jewish family that relocates every few months.


== Plot ==
Fourteen-year-old Vivian Abromowitz's family are penniless nomads, moving from one cheap apartment to another in 1976 Beverly Hills, so that Vivian and her brothers can attend the city's prestigious local schools. Their father, Murray, is a divorced 65-year-old, working as an unsuccessful Oldsmobile salesman whose cars are selling poorly due in large part to the energy crisis of the time.
Vivian's wealthy uncle Mickey regularly sends the family money to help them survive. When Mickey's 29-year-old daughter Rita escapes from a rehab facility, Murray offers her shelter if Mickey will pay for a plush apartment. Vivian must babysit her adult cousin, ensuring that she attends nursing school and avoids pills and alcohol. However, Vivian has her own problems: she is curious about sex, likes an apparently-twenty-something neighbor, Eliot, has inherited her mother's ample breasts, and wants a family that does not embarrass her.
Vivian's older brother Ben aspires to a show business career.  Her father appreciates the attention from his wealthy lady-friend Doris Zimmerman but resists her desire that he send his kids back East to live with his ex-wife. Vivian's younger brother Rickey wishes they could live somewhere where they could have more comforts like furniture and worries about how old their father is.
Vivian and Rita are close and sometimes speak in gibberish. Vivian learns that Rita is not that serious about attending nursing school, being more interested in re-establishing contact with a guy she met in rehab, and also has no idea what to do with her life. Murray attempts to cover up Rita's lack of progress at nursing school when Mickey asks for progress reports. Eventually, Mickey starts to go off on Murray, frustrated at having to support his brother's family; he explodes during a meeting between the two families, telling Murray he is "their real father" because he sends them money. Vivian snaps and stabs Mickey in the leg with a fork; then Rita admits that she is pregnant. Rita gets on a plane with her now outraged parents. Depressed and dejected, Murray once again packs the kids into his car and they take off. In an attempt to cheer her father up, Vivian suggests that the family stop for a cheap steak at Sizzler for breakfast — a ritual regularly suggested by their father as a means of showing affection to his children.


== Cast ==
Alan Arkin as Murray Abromowitz, Vivian's father
Natasha Lyonne as Vivian Abromowitz, a fifteen-year-old girl who is the story's main protagonist
Kevin Corrigan as Eliot Arenson, Vivian's neighbor and sometime boyfriend
Jessica Walter as Doris, Murray's new love interest
Rita Moreno as Belle Abromowitz, Mickey's wife and Rita's mother
David Krumholtz as Ben Abromowitz, Vivian's 18-year-old brother
Eli Marienthal as Rickey Abromowitz, Vivian's 10-year-old brother
Carl Reiner as Mickey Abromowitz, Murray's older brother and Rita's father
Marisa Tomei as Rita Abromowitz, Vivian's paternal cousin
Jay Patterson as Dr. Grossman
Mena Suvari as Rachel Hoffman


== Production ==
The film is loosely based on writer-director Tamara Jenkins' experiences as a youth moving around different apartments in the Beverly Hills area with her lower-middle-class family. Jenkins wrote the script at the Sundance Filmmakers' Lab, where Sundance founder Robert Redford got ahold of her screenplay and expressed interest in producing it. Redford said he related to Jenkins' experiences of having "grown up as an 'outsider'...not at all a member of the club but a sideline observer from the wrong side of the tracks." Redford is credited as an executive p