South Park: Snow Day! is a 2024 action-adventure game developed by Question LLC and published by THQ Nordic in association with South Park Digital Studios. The game is based on the South Park animated series and takes place after the events of the previous games The Stick of Truth and The Fractured but Whole. It was released for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, Windows, and Xbox Series X/S on March 26, 2024, and received mixed reviews from critics.


== Gameplay ==
South Park: Snow Day! centers around the four main characters—Eric Cartman, Stan Marsh, Kyle Broflovski, and Kenny McCormick—participating in snow-based fights and activities, with players assuming the role of a player-created character named The New Kid (as with the previous games the Stick of Truth, Phone Destroyer, and the Fractured but Whole). 
After starting and finishing the tutorial, the player is placed in a small hub world, in which the population abides in Kupa Keep in Cartman's backyard. The player can interact with characters such as Cartman in which missions are selected, Mr. Hankey, who takes dark matter (Which is actually feces) as currency to improve the player's perks, which can also be swapped to accommodate the player's preferences, Butters Stotch who keeps a record of cards found throughout the game, Tolkien Black who maintains the armory where the player can select weapons and abilities, and Tweek Tweak and Craig Tucker who maintain the Bazaar, where the player can purchase emotes or customizable clothes and hairstyles with platinum points. 
Once a mission is selected, the player must select a card that can improve abilities depending on their loadout, as well as a Bullshit card, that would give the players major advantages. Enemies also will have cards set before missions. Arenas contain multiple chests that can carry Cheesy Poofs for healing, and toilet paper that can be used as currency to upgrade cards, as well as dark matter which can improve player perks when players visit Mr. Hankey at Kupa Keep. Jimmy Valmer will be found after each combat section and offer other cards or upgrades to preexisting cards. Henrietta Biggle can also be found in places across the arenas to give players Tarot cards that can replenish Bullshit cards or hand out currency among other things. After completing the main story, Nichole Daniels will inform the player of Infernal Pacts, where they can find her during missions, and accept difficult tasks, which lead to rewards if they survive.


== Plot ==
Eric Cartman comes home during an intense blizzard, excited over the prospect of a day off from school, while his mother, Liane, is shocked by the damage and casualties reported on the news. At night, Eric prays to God for a snow day, and in the morning, the news states that all Park County schools are to be closed. Afterwards, he jubilantly goes outside and tells everyone, including the New Kid, to get outside and play. Once everyone is in their fantasy costumes, Cartman tells the New Kid that they have set up new rules after the New Kid became too powerful the last two times, but due to disagreements, the town's children are at war with each other over which version of the rules are best. Cartman also mentions how Clyde Donovan has information about how the elves, led by Kyle Broflovski, are planning to attack Kupa Keep and tells the New Kid to investigate. After Kyle is defeated, Cartman questions him at Kupa Keep on why he was planning the attack. Kyle denies this and states that he was planning to talk to Stan Marsh, who he suspects to be responsible for the blizzard.
Cartman sends the New Kid to Stan's Marshwalker territory, but Stan has obtained a powerful axe in a quest, and instantly defeats the New Kid. This leads to Cartman insisting on putting the New Kid on a quest to find the same power that Stan has. After a fight with Kenny Mccormick, the New Kid meets with Jimbo Kern and Ned Gerblansky, who are trying to fend off townspeople who are desperate for food a