Somewhere in Time is a 1980 American romantic fantasy drama film from Universal Pictures, directed by Jeannot Szwarc, and starring Christopher Reeve, Jane Seymour, and Christopher Plummer. It is a film adaptation of the novel Bid Time Return (1975) by Richard Matheson, who also wrote the screenplay. 
Reeve plays Richard Collier, a playwright who becomes obsessed with a photograph of a young woman at the Grand Hotel on Mackinac Island, Michigan. Through self-hypnosis, he manifests himself back in time to the year 1912 to find love with actress Elise McKenna (portrayed by Seymour). He comes into conflict with Elise's manager, William Fawcett Robinson (portrayed by Plummer), who fears that romance will derail her career, and attempts to stop him.
The film is known for its musical score composed by John Barry, featuring pianist Roger Williams. The 18th variation of Sergei Rachmaninoff's Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini is also used several times.
Seymour disclosed at the 2022 TCM Classic Film Festival that she and Christopher Reeve fell in love while working on the film. However, they broke up after Reeve found out his ex-girlfriend was expecting his child. The two remained close friends until Reeve died.
The film garnered a serious cult following and in 1990 super fan Bill Shepard, founded a fan club called INSITE, the International Network of Somewhere In Time Enthusiasts.


== Plot ==
In 1972, college theater student Richard Collier celebrates the debut of his new play. An elderly woman approaches him, places a pocket watch in his hand, and pleads, "Come back to me". After returning to her home, she dies in her sleep.
Eight years later, Richard is a successful playwright living in Chicago. While struggling with writer's block, he decides to take a break and travel to a resort, the Grand Hotel. There he becomes enthralled with a vintage photograph of Elise McKenna, an early-20th century stage actress. She turns out to be the woman who gave him the pocket watch. Richard visits Laura Roberts, Elise's former housekeeper and companion, and discovers a music box that plays the 18th variation of Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini by Rachmaninoff, his favorite musical piece. Among Elise's personal effects is a book on time travel written by his old college professor, Dr. Gerard Finney. Having fallen in love with Elise, Richard becomes obsessed with traveling back to 1912 and meeting her.
He seeks out Professor Finney, who believes that he briefly time-traveled through the power of self-suggestion. Dressed in an early 20th-century suit, Richard attempts to will himself to 1912 using tape-recorded suggestions. The attempt fails because he lacks real conviction, but after finding a hotel guest book from 1912 containing his signature, he realizes that he will succeed.
He hypnotizes himself again, allowing his faith in his eventual success to serve as the engine that transports him back in time. When he awakes in 1912, he finds Elise walking by the lake. Upon meeting him, she asks, "Is it you?” Her manager, William Fawcett Robinson, intervenes and sends Richard away. Although Elise is initially uninterested, Richard pursues her until she agrees to accompany him on a stroll the next morning. He asks what Elise meant by "Is it you?" Elise reveals that Robinson had predicted that she would meet a man who will change her life and that she should be afraid. Richard shows Elise the pocket watch that she will give him in 1972.
Richard attends Elise's play where she recites an impromptu romantic monologue while making eye contact with him. In the interval, Elise poses for a photograph and, once more making eye contact with Richard, breaks into a radiant smile. This is the photograph Richard saw hanging at the hotel.
After the play, Richard receives a message from Robinson requesting a meeting. Robinson wants him to leave Elise, saying it is for her own good. When Richard declares his intention to stand by Elise for the rest of her life, Robinson has hi