Mother and Son is an Australian television sitcom that was broadcast on the Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) from 16 January 1984 until 21 March 1994. The show stars Ruth Cracknell, Garry McDonald, Henri Szeps and Judy Morris. It featured many Australian actors of the time in guest roles. It was created and written by Geoffrey Atherden. Its theme song features the Tasmanian Symphony Orchestra, playing I Want a Girl (Just Like the Girl That Married Dear Old Dad), a jazz standard which was recorded by Al Jolson in the 1920s.
A stage version of Mother and Son was written by Geoffrey Atherden and premiered at the Comedy Theatre, Melbourne, on 18 July 2014.
In November 2022, it was announced the series would be given an eight-episode reboot with Denise Scott and Matt Okine playing Maggie and Arthur, respectively. Filming for the series began in Sydney in March 2023.


== Premise ==
The plot of the show addresses the problems of ageing and caring for somebody with increasing memory loss, with an often sharp-edged humour which carried with it a tinge of sadness. Despite its unlikely subject matter for a comedy, the show was a favourite with audiences. Maggie's and Arthur's relationship was presented with a fascinating complexity—Maggie's cruel attacks on and emotional manipulation of Arthur disguised her deep dependence on and need of him, and Arthur's dutiful love of Maggie was constantly in conflict with his guilty frustration at the huge limitations for his own life which looking after his mother entailed. The performance of Cracknell, a famous stage actress, as Maggie was particularly lauded as one of the finest characterisations on Australian television. The series itself became extremely popular and has screened in constant re-runs, particularly by Network Ten. Garry McDonald and Ruth Cracknell in character would appear in television adverts for Dynamo laundry liquid.


== Main characters ==


=== Maggie Beare ===
Maggie (Ruth Cracknell), full name Margaret May Lapsley Beare, is the widow of World War II veteran Leo, mother of Robert and Arthur, sister to Lorna and grandmother to Damien and Teonie. Maggie is apparently in the early stages of some form of dementia and her younger son Arthur lives with and takes care of her. However, despite being increasingly forgetful, Maggie is lucid enough to manipulate Arthur when she wants to, usually for something devilish that will seriously inconvenience him. Maggie was a former nurse and met Leo while treating him for war wounds.


=== Arthur Beare ===
Younger son of Maggie and Leo, brother of Robert, uncle to Damien and Teonie and recent ex-husband of Deidre, Arthur (Garry McDonald) is an editor and journalist for a newspaper. When he is not working, he is usually at home attending to the demands of his impish and increasingly confused mother. He drives a 1955 Morris Minor Series II Tourer convertible that is constantly breaking down, has trouble bringing female friends back to the house because of his mother's deliberate interference, and is almost always thwarted by Maggie whenever he attempts to socialize with his work friends. Maggie frequently excoriates Arthur, labelling all his would-be girlfriends as "floozies", Arthur is nicknamed "Artie" by brother Robert.


=== Robert Beare ===
Elder son of Maggie and Leo, brother of Arthur, husband to Liz and father of Damien and Teonie, Robert (Henri Szeps) is a successful dentist who takes many holidays and has extramarital affairs. He does so by disguising his overseas holiday trysts as dental research conferences. His mother tells him off for his womanising and says that it is the reason he failed medical school, much to the disappointment of his late father. He is a 'man of leisure' who is adept at providing excuses as to why it is Arthur and not he that must take the primary care of their elderly mother. Robert loves to play tennis and golf, listening to classical music, and throughout the show owns a series of luxury cars: a