Some Kind of Wonderful is a 1987 American teen romantic comedy-drama film directed by Howard Deutch and starring Eric Stoltz, Mary Stuart Masterson, and Lea Thompson. It is one of several successful teen dramas written by John Hughes in the 1980s.
Blue-collar teen Keith goes out with the popular Amanda, a girl he's always dreamed of dating. Her ex-boyfriend plots revenge on him, while Keith's tomboy best friend Watts realizes she has feelings for Keith.
The film had its premiere in Hollywood on February 23, 1987 and widely released theatrically in the United States on February 27, 1987.


== Plot ==
The film is set against the strict social hierarchy of an American public high school in the San Fernando Valley. Blue-collar mechanic and aspiring artist Keith Nelson is best friends with tomboy drummer Watts. Keith's father, Cliff, is obsessed with sending him to college for business, as he would be the first in their family to go.
Keith is enamored with Amanda Jones, one of the most popular girls in school, and he spends much of his time drawing her. She is dating Hardy Jenns, a spoiled and selfish boy from a wealthy neighborhood. However, Amanda herself is not wealthy: she lives in the same working-class district as Watts and Keith, and she borrows her fashionable clothes from her friends. Hardy treats Amanda as his "property" while also fooling around with another girl. 
Watts is dismissive of Keith's crush, saying that he and Amanda are too different. Hearing that Amanda will be in detention for the foreseeable future, Keith gets himself in trouble to spend time with her. However, she talks her way out of it, and he is stuck with the school criminals, eventually making friends with troublemaker Duncan.
When Amanda breaks up with Hardy, Keith asks her out. Mainly to spite Hardy, Amanda accepts. Meanwhile, seeing them together makes Watts realize that she loves him as more than just a friend. She pretends to like another boy to try and make Keith jealous, and she continues to discourage him from being with Amanda, to no avail. Keith's popularity around school begins to increase once word spreads of his upcoming date with Amanda, whereas Amanda's popularity quickly declines.
Hardy plots trouble for Keith by inviting him and Amanda to a party after their date, where he plans to have him beaten up. Through his sister Laura, Keith finds out about the scheme and believes Amanda is a part of it. He decides to go to the party anyway and face Hardy.
Amanda's wealthy and popular friends start to shun her for being with Keith, and he tries to plan the perfect date to prove he is worthy of Amanda. With Watts in tow, he uses his college money to buy a pair of diamond earrings, rent an expensive car, and take Amanda to a posh restaurant. Watts tells him that she will appreciate a good kisser, so she kisses Keith under the guise of teaching him how to do it. Still, Keith is oblivious to her attraction to him. When Cliff discovers the college fund has been emptied, he is livid, but Keith ultimately convinces his father to respect his right to make his own decisions.
On the night of the date, Keith picks up Amanda, with Watts serving as their chauffeur. They go to an expensive restaurant for dinner, however they initially argue. Then, Keith brings Amanda to an art museum and shows her a painting he did of her. He gives her the earrings, and they kiss while Watts watches them from a distance.
Finally, they go to Hardy's party. Keith is about to get beaten by Hardy's friends when Duncan and his school buddies arrive to help him. Hardy tries to talk his way out of the predicament, exposing himself as a coward in front of the party guests. Amused, Keith tells him he is "over," after which Amanda slaps Hardy twice.
After they leave the party, Watts apologizes to Amanda. Watts then leaves them and starts to walk home in tears. Amanda suddenly realizes that Keith and Watts have feelings for each other. She gives the earrings back to Keith and urges h