Some Like It Hot is a 2022 musical comedy with music by Marc Shaiman, lyrics by Scott Wittman and Shaiman, and a book by Matthew López and Amber Ruffin. It is based on the 1959 MGM/UA feature film Some Like It Hot, which in turn was based on the 1935 French film Fanfare of Love. The musical, like the film, follows the story of jazz age musicians struggling during Prohibition. 
The show received positive reviews from critics, and went on to receive a leading 13 nominations at the 76th Tony Awards, including Best Musical, with J. Harrison Ghee getting a nomination for and subsequently winning Best Leading Actor in a Musical, making them one of the first openly non-binary performers to be nominated for Tonys.


== Plot ==


=== Act I ===
At the tail end of Prohibition, Chicago speakeasy performer Sweet Sue is arrested in a raid ("What Are You Thirsty For?"). After being bailed out of jail, Sue decides to form an all-female band that will tour the western U.S., playing its final engagement in San Diego. Meanwhile, the club's saxophonist Joe and bass player Jerry, desperately in need of a paycheck, seek out a job with Spats Colombo, the proprietor of the Cheetah Club and a powerful gangster. Colombo's hiring manager is impressed by Joe, but refuses to hire Jerry because of the color of his skin. The two explain that Jerry's parents raised Joe after his own outlaw parents abandoned him, and as such, they come as a package deal ("You Can't Have Me (If You Don't Have Him)"). Colombo, impressed by their tap dancing act, "The Tip-Tap Twins", agrees to hire them. 
That evening, Colombo receives a tip from FBI Agent Mulligan that he will be arrested imminently if he doesn't turn state's evidence. Suspecting he has been betrayed, Colombo calls Toothpick Charlie and two of his associates into his office and has them shot. At this moment, Joe and Jerry walk in and witness the slaying. Fleeing from Colombo’s goons, the pair find themselves in a women's dressing room. Joe hatches a plan: dress in drag and join Sweet Sue's band to get to San Diego, then flee to Mexico. Jerry is doubtful that they will be able to pull it off, but seeing no alternative, he goes along with the plan. ("Vamp!")
The next day, Joe and Jerry arrive at the train station as the band is departing, posing as two music students named "Josephine" and "Daphne". Sweet Sue hires them to replace the original sax and bass player, whose instruments were dumped in the river by Joe and Jerry. The last to arrive is the band's singer, Sugar Kane ("I'm California Bound"). On the train, Sugar confesses to Josephine and Daphne that she is joining the all-female band because of her weakness for male musicians, particularly saxophone players ("A Darker Shade of Blue").
As the show travels west, Josephine, Daphne and Sugar develop a new version of the Tip-Tap Twins act, "The Tip-Tap Trio." ("Take It Up A Step") Joe, who struggles to fit in as Josephine, marvels at Jerry’s ease in becoming a woman as he leads the girls in telling off a greedy bar manager ("Zee Bap"). Sugar and Josephine grow closer, and Sugar shares her childhood dreams of movie stardom ("At the Old Majestic Nickel Matinee"). Joe begins to fall for Sugar. Meanwhile, Colombo recognizes the Tip-Tap Trio as Joe and Jerry's act.
The band arrives at the Hotel Coronado in San Diego. The hotel's owner, Osgood Fielding III, an eccentric millionaire in search of love, takes an immediate interest in Daphne ("Poor Little Millionaire"). Joe insists to Jerry that they flee to Mexico immediately, but Jerry doesn't want to leave the band yet, feeling more at home as Daphne than he ever has. Joe attempts to escape alone by stealing the luggage of Austrian screenwriter Kip von der Plotz, but bumps into Sugar. Impersonating Kip, he woos her, and she invites him to see her perform that evening. When Kip shows up in place of Josephine that night, Sugar and Daphne perform the act as a duo. Daphne angrily eyes "Kip" from the stage while Osgood ad