Son of Frankenstein is a 1939 American horror film directed by Rowland V. Lee and starring Basil Rathbone, Boris Karloff and Bela Lugosi. The film is the third in Universal Pictures' Frankenstein series and is the follow-up to the 1935 film Bride of Frankenstein. Son of Frankenstein stars Rathbone as Baron Wolf von Frankenstein who, with his wife Elsa (Josephine Hutchinson) and son Peter (Donnie Dunagan), returns to his late father's estate. Near the castle lives Ygor (Bela Lugosi), a crazed blacksmith whose neck was broken in an unsuccessful hanging attempt. Among the castle's remains, Frankenstein discovers the remains of the Monster (Boris Karloff) and decides to try to save his family name by resurrecting the creature to prove his father was correct. He finds, however, the Monster only responds to Ygor's commands.
The film was originally announced in August 1938 after a successful theatrical reissue of Dracula and Frankenstein. Son of Frankenstein was initially announced under the title After Frankenstein. The screenplay written by Willis Cooper was initially rejected and early script drafts included only the characters that would be used in the final film. The original budget was set at $250,000 but Lee increased it to $300,000 and had a 27-day shooting schedule. Difficulties in production arose when Lee was unsatisfied with the script. Production was delayed until November 9 due to inclement weather and other problems, and filming was completed on January 5, 1939, with a final cost of $420,000. The film was released on January 13, 1939, and received positive reviews from The New York Daily News, The New York Times, Variety and the Monthly Film Bulletin. A sequel, The Ghost of Frankenstein, was released in 1942.


== Plot ==
Baron Wolf von Frankenstein, son of Henry Frankenstein, relocates his wife Elsa and their young son Peter to the family castle. Wolf wants to redeem his father's reputation but finds this will be more difficult than he thought after he encounters hostility from the villagers, who resent him for the destruction wreaked by his father's Monster years ago. Wolf's only other friend is the local police Inspector Krogh, who wears an artificial arm because Frankenstein's creature ripped off his real arm when he was a child. While investigating his father's castle, Wolf meets Ygor, an embittered blacksmith who survived being hanged for grave-robbing and who has a deformed neck as a result. Wolf finds the Monster's comatose body in the crypt where his grandfather and father are buried; his father's sarcophagus bears the name "Heinrich von Frankenstein" with "Maker of Monsters" added in chalk. He decides to revive the Monster to prove his father was correct and to restore honour to his family. Wolf uses a torch to scratch out the word "Monsters" on the casket and writes "Men" beneath it.
Wolf revives the Monster but it only responds to Ygor's commands; he sends the Monster out to commit a series of murders. Meanwhile, Peter talks of a nice giant who  visits him in his room, and to whom he gave one of his picture books. Elsa and Amelia, Peter's nurse, are amused at his imagination, and only Wolf and Inspector Krogh take the story seriously. Krogh suspects that Wolf has created a murderous monster similar to his father's, due to marks on the victims' bodies, but Wolf denies it. Meanwhile, Benson, the Frankensteins' butler, who is also a friend and assistant to Wolf, suggests to Wolf that he tell Krogh about the Monster, which Ygor overhears. Wolf refuses but agrees that his wife and child must leave the castle. Wolf goes to question Ygor about Benson's disappearance; Ygor claims that Benson was so frightened by the Monster that he ran away. Wolf tells Elsa that he wants her and Peter to go temporarily to Brussels, and he will follow later.
After what is at first believed to be an accidental death - a man apparently crushed by his wagon - another murder occurs, and Inspector Krogh realizes that these latest deaths 