The Specialist is a 1994 American action thriller film directed by Luis Llosa and starring Sylvester Stallone, Sharon Stone, James Woods, Eric Roberts, and Rod Steiger. It is loosely based on "The Specialist" series of novels by John Shirley. The film was met with negative critical response, but became a box office success, and Gloria Estefan's version of "Turn the Beat Around" became a dance sensation, becoming #1 on Billboard’s Dance Club Songs chart.


== Plot ==
In 1984, Captain Ray Quick and Colonel Ned Trent, explosives experts working for the CIA, are on a mission to blow up a car transporting a South American cocaine dealer. But when the car appears, a little girl is inside with the dealer. Ray insists they abort the mission, but Ned intends to see it through and allows the explosion to happen, and the child is subsequently killed, along with the dealer. Furious, Ray beats Ned, reports him to his superiors and resigns from the CIA.
Years later, in Miami, Ray works as a freelance hit man. He answers ads placed by a woman named May Munro and speaks to her often to decide if he should take the job or not. She is the only child of parents who were killed by Tomas Leon and his men. Against his better judgment, and pushed by her insistence that she will infiltrate the gang with or without him, Ray is persuaded to accept the job. Even though he has agreed, May ingratiates herself into Tomas' world as Adrian Hastings.
Ned now works for Joe Leon, Tomas' father and director of their organized crime syndicate. Once the hits on their lower level men begin, they contact the chief of police to place Ned in their bomb squad. May tolerates Tomas and plays along as his girlfriend to personally watch the hits one by one. May has actually been forced into a partnership with Ned, whose goal was to coax Ray out of hiding. After the job in South America went wrong, Ned was dismissed from the CIA and is intent on revenge.
When a trap for Tomas is set, May is in the room; the resulting explosion appears to kill them both. Ned goes to Joe to pay his respects;  the grieving father lets Ned live only so he can find Ray and bring him alive before Tomas is buried. Ray and Ned believe May is dead, yet Ray discovers bulletin board messages are still being posted. He responds to one, realizing that it is a trap set by Ned and the bomb squad, and baits Ned into an explosive tirade.
At the funeral of Adrian Hastings, Ray finds that May is alive. She went there to see if Ray would attend. The two go to the Fontainebleau Hotel and have sex. She then leaves. Meanwhile, Ned has gone to the cathedral and learns that the person in the casket is not May. She runs into Ned in the hotel lobby and makes an excuse as to why she did not reveal that she was alive. A henchman is ordered to take her to the car, and en route, she asks to use the restroom. Once there, she calls to warn Ray. He rigs the hotel room to explode. When Ned's henchmen appear, it detonates, killing three of them.
May is taken to Joe Leon but Ned insists on keeping her alive to lure Ray out. Ned listens in as Ray calls May, he refuses to meet with her and be "set up" again, but she convinces him that she truly does care about him. He arranges a meeting at a seafood restaurant and May uses secret coding to tell him it is a trap before hanging up. When Ned sends May inside, the restaurant explodes. Ray and May escape to his warehouse. Ned listens to the recording of Ray's call and tracks down his location. The next morning, May is preparing to leave to kill Joe Leon herself, but Ray tells her to let go of the past. Ned arrives with an army of police that surround the booby-trapped warehouse. Ray and May are cornered. While pursuing them, Ned steps on a mine. The warehouse explodes, killing Ned; Ray and May escape unseen through a tunnel.
The next day, Joe opens his mail and finds a necklace. It contains a picture of May's parents and is rigged with a bomb, which kills Joe instantly. After hearing