The Spitfire Grill (also known as Care of the Spitfire Grill) is a 1996 American drama film written and directed by Lee David Zlotoff, and starring Alison Elliott, Ellen Burstyn, Marcia Gay Harden, Will Patton, Kieran Mulroney and Gailard Sartain. It tells a story of a woman who was just released from prison and goes to work in a small-town café known as The Spitfire Grill.  
It won the Audience Award at the 1996 Sundance Film Festival, prompting several distributors to enter into a bidding war in response to the positive buzz, but when finally released, critics as a whole responded less favorably than they had at Sundance. The film is the basis for the 2001 Off-Broadway musical of the same name by James Valcq and Fred Alley.


== Plot ==
Perchance "Percy" Talbot is recently released on parole after five years at Maine Correctional Center in Windham, Maine. The young woman arrives in the small town of Gilead, Maine with hopes of starting a new life. She is given a job as a waitress at the Spitfire Grill, owned by Hannah, whose gruff exterior conceals a kind heart and little tolerance for the Grill's regular customers who are suspicious of and vocal about Percy's mysterious past. None is more suspicious than Nahum, Hannah's nephew, who constantly criticizes Percy and launches his own investigation into her past. His wife, Shelby, has a kinder curiosity and reaches out to Percy, becoming one of her few friends in town.
When Hannah is bedridden after a nasty fall, she places Percy in charge of the Grill despite Percy's lack of experience with cooking and kitchen skills. Seeing that Percy is in need of help, Shelby pitches in to work at the Grill and help Percy win the approval of Hannah, who learns she does need friends. Joe, an attractive young man in town, becomes smitten with Percy and spends some time getting to know her, even introducing her to his father, Aaron. Although Joe eventually proposes that he and Percy get married, she refuses because she feels unworthy to be his wife and tells Joe she's unable to bear children. Joe reveals that he has been approached by a scientist who thinks that the town's trees might have medicinal benefits, which might lead to greater economic prospects for Gilead. 
Percy becomes aware of a local hermit in the woods who drops by at night to pick up a sack of canned goods from Hannah. Initially unsuccessful at contacting the hermit, Percy eventually follows him and discovers his makeshift abode in the woods where he crafts aviary art pieces out of bark and other natural materials. Slowly but surely, Percy begins to gain the trust of the hermit. At the same time, she learns from Shelby about how Hannah's missing son, Eli, had enlisted to serve in the Vietnam War and did not return, causing Eli's war-hero father, James, to die from heartbreak and Hannah to become hard-hearted. (There is a brief allusion to James perhaps having piloted a Spitfire aircraft, which presumably gave the Grill its name.) Learning that Hannah has tried unsuccessfully for years to sell the Grill, Percy puts forward the idea to hold a $100-per-entry essay contest to find a new owner via lottery for the Grill. Hannah, believing the contest is Shelby's idea, opens up to the idea and eventually, with promotional help from Percy's former cellmates who work in a tourism call center operated by the prison, the contest proves wildly successful. More and more mail comes in with money for the Grill, and other townspeople are drawn into helping sort through the essays. Attitudes grow more positive, allowing Percy to open up more about her past to Shelby. 
However, Nahum remains suspicious of Percy and learns that she was in prison for manslaughter. When he suggests that Percy is a con artist planning to steal the contest funds, Shelby is furious and vouches for Percy. That night, Nahum sneaks into the Grill and moves all the money from the safe into the sack. Before he can do anything further, Percy unwittingly takes the sack into 