Mobile Suit Gundam 0083: Stardust Memory (Japanese: 機動戦士ガンダム0083 STARDUST MEMORY, Hepburn: Kidō Senshi Gandamu Daburuōeitīsurī Sutādasuto Memorī) is a 13-episode anime OVA series set in the Gundam universe. The first volume containing two 30-minute episodes was released in Japan on May 23, 1991. Subsequent volumes, containing one 30-minute episode each, followed every one or two months; the final volume went on sale on September 24, 1992. The series was directed by Mitsuko Kase (episodes 1–7) and Takashi Imanishi (episodes 8–13). A movie compilation, also directed by Imanishi was released in Japan on August 29, 1992, a month before the final OVA volume went on sale. The characters were designed by Toshihiro Kawamoto. Mechanical designs were by Shoji Kawamori (of Macross fame) and Hajime Katoki.
Gundam 0083:Stardust Memory was licensed in North America by Bandai Entertainment and was available on VHS and DVD. The OVA series aired on Cartoon Network's Adult Swim in 2002.


== Plot ==
The year is Universal Century 0083, and three years have passed after the One Year War ended with the Principality of Zeon's defeat. The Delaz Fleet, a group of Zeon remnants, launches an attack on the Earth Federation's Torrington Base, stealing the prototype Gundam GP02A "Physalis", a mobile suit with nuclear launch capability. Kou Uraki, a test pilot at Torrington Base, becomes the pilot for the Gundam GP01 "Zephyranthes", and joins the Pegasus-class carrier Albion as it pursues the stolen GP02A to stop the Delaz Fleet's ultimate goal: "Operation Stardust".


== Characters ==


=== Main characters ===

Kou Uraki (コウ・ウラキ)
Voiced by: Ryō Horikawa (Japanese); Paul Stephen (English)
Main mecha: RX-78GP01 Gundam GP01 "Zephyranthes"; RX-78GP01Fb Gundam GP01Fb "Zephyranthes" Full Burnern; RX-78GP03 Gundam GP03 "Dendrobium"
Other mecha: MS-06F-2 Zaku II F2
A 19-year-old Federation test pilot stationed at the Torrington base in Australia. When Anavel Gato steals the Gundam GP02A, Kou goes after him in the Gundam GP01. He is later assigned to the Albion's mobile suit team under the command of Lieutenant South Burning with orders to either recapture or destroy the GP02A. Uraki matures during his stay aboard the Albion and develops a relationship with Anaheim Electronics systems engineer Nina Purpleton.
Anavel Gato (アナベル・ガトー, Anaberu Gatō)
Voiced by: Akio Ōtsuka (Japanese); Kirk Thornton (English)
Main mecha: RX-78GP02A Gundam GP02A "Physalis"; AMX-002 Neue Ziel
Other mecha: MS-14A Gelgoog; YMS-09R-2 Prototype Rick Dom Zwei
A former member of the Principality of Zeon's elite palace guard unit. At the Battle of Solomon during the One Year War, Gato earned the nickname "Nightmare of Solomon". He joined Aiguille Delaz's fleet late in the war and departed with them following the fall of A Baoa Qu. Gato returns to Earth in October U.C. 0083 to seize the Gundam GP02A with the intent to use this mobile suit's nuclear weapon against the Federation's Naval Review.
Nina Purpleton (ニナ・パープルトン, Nina Pāpuruton)
Voiced by: Rei Sakuma (Japanese); Dorothy Elias-Fahn (English)
A 21-year-old Anaheim Electronics systems engineer in charge of the project that developed the two Gundams, which she is extremely protective over. She reluctantly allows Uraki to pilot the Gundam GP01 in order to recapture the Gundam GP02A and they both slowly begin a romantic relationship.


=== Albion crew ===
Eyphar Sinapus (エイパー・シナプス, Eipā Shinapusu)
Voiced by: Chikao Otsuka (Japanese); Simon Prescott (English)
The captain of the ship Albion, which is given the tall order of recapturing the stolen Gundam GP02A. During Operation Stardust, Sinapus goes against Federation orders and acquires the GP03 Dendrobium to stop the Delaz Fleet from fulfilling their mission. In the aftermath of the operation, Sinapus is charged with mutiny and sentenced to death.
South Burning (サウス・バニング, Sausu Baningu)
Voiced by: Masashi Sugawara (Japanese); Paul St. Peter (English)
Mecha: RGM-79C GM Type C; RGM-79N GM Custom
A