Stay Tuned is a 1992 American fantasy comedy film directed by Peter Hyams and written by Jim Jennewein and Tom S. Parker, with an animated sequence supervised by Chuck Jones. The film stars John Ritter, Pam Dawber, Jeffrey Jones, and Eugene Levy. Its plot follows a suburban couple who are sucked into a television world by an emissary of hell, and must survive for 24 hours in order to be released from it.
Stay Tuned was released in the United States on August 14, 1992, by Warner Bros. Pictures. The film received mixed reviews from critics and grossed $12 million.


== Plot ==
Struggling Seattle plumbing salesman, former fencing athlete, and couch potato Roy Knable lives with his neglected wife Helen, a vitamin product senior manager. After a fight (which involved Helen smashing the family television screen with one of Roy's fencing trophies as a wake-up call to reality), Mr. Spike, a mysterious salesman, appears at the couple's door, offering them a new high-tech satellite dish system filled with 666 channels of programs one cannot view on regular television (with titles including "Three Men and Rosemary's Baby" and "Sadistic Hidden Videos"). But Helen showed up when she discovered a TV set and later plans to divorce. Unbeknownst to Roy, Spike is an emissary from hell who wants to boost the influx of souls by arranging for TV junkies to be killed in the most gruesome and ironic situations imaginable. The 'candidates' are sucked into a hellish television world, called Hellevision, and put through a gauntlet where they must survive a number of demonic satirical versions of sitcoms and movies. If they can survive for 24 hours, they are free to go, but if they get killed, then their souls will become the property of Satan.
The dish sucks Roy and Helen into this warped world, where they are put through a hellish game show, wrestling match, and a parody of Northern Exposure (titled "Northern Overexposure"), in which they meet Crowley, an exiled former co-worker of Spike's, who explains to them how this world works. Through tenacity, improvisation, and sheer luck, the Knables stay alive and escape into different channels through portals hidden within the shows and movies. While watching the TV, their young son Darryl recognizes his parents fighting for their lives as animated mice in a Tom and Jerry-style cartoon in which they are pursued by a robotic cat, after which they become separated. Roy appears in a parody of Wayne's World ("Duane's Underworld") featuring the titular characters as zombies, in which he is nearly burned to death with hot pokers, but manages to escape. Roy eventually finds Helen in a black-and-white gangster movie, and the two escape into a miniseries about the French Revolution ("Off With His Head") in which Roy is captured and nearly beheaded. Darryl, a tech geek, is able to use radio equipment to patch into the miniseries and convince the characters he is God, demanding they let his parents go, which infuriates Spike. 
Roy's 24 hours are up at this point, but since he was the only one who signed Spike's contract, this activates a loophole wherein he can make Helen remain in the TV world and use her to lure Roy back in. Spike enters the TV world and kidnaps Helen, changing channels again.  She finds herself tied to a cart sitting across the railway track in a town straight out of a Western movie, with Spike gleefully informing her that the 3:10 to Yuma is due soon, and then sadistically adding that it isn’t scheduled to stop.   Helen subsequently sees that the cart is stacked with barrels labelled dynamite, meaning she risks being hit by a speeding train and blown up.  Spike, in the guise of a newsreader, informs Roy and his kids - watching from their home - that Helen has been kidnapped and is being held captive on Channel One, in an attempt to lure Roy back in.
Roy goes back in and has a gunfight with Spike wherein he is shot. However, the bullet is stopped by Roy's remote control. He and Spike then fight ove