The Big Steal is a 1949 American black-and-white film noir reteaming Out of the Past stars Robert Mitchum and Jane Greer. The film was directed by Don Siegel, based on the short story "The Road to Carmichael's" by Richard Wormser.


== Plot ==
U.S. Army lieutenant Duke Halliday (Robert Mitchum) is robbed of a $300,000 payroll by Jim Fiske (Patric Knowles). When Halliday's superior, Captain Vincent Blake (William Bendix), suspects him of having taken part in the theft, Halliday pursues Fiske into Mexico. Along the way, he runs into Joan Graham (Jane Greer), who is also after Fiske, she for $2000 loaned to her now ex-boyfriend. The two join forces, tentatively at first, as they are not sure if they can trust each other. 
Fiske stays one step ahead of the couple as they chase him near the length of Mexico, pursued all the while with equal ardour by Blake. When Halliday is knocked down trying to stop Fiske from getting away, he comes to the attention of Police Inspector General Ortega (Ramon Novarro). Halliday claims to be Blake, using identification he took from the captain after a brawl. Ortega lets him go after Fiske, but keeps an eye on him. His suspicions towards Halliday are confirmed when the real Blake shows up at his office seeking  help.
Halliday and Graham ultimately track Fiske to a safehouse in the desert, where a fence, Seton (John Qualen), offers him $150,000 in untraceable bills in exchange for the payroll. After a shootout, the couple are captured by Seton's henchmen. When Blake shows up, Halliday is initially relieved to be rescued, until Blake reveals that he is actually the brains behind the crime.
Fiske turns squeamish at the prospect of Graham being murdered and dumped in the desert along with Halliday, and proposes taking her with him. Blake, who is calling all the shots, rejects the idea, and in an act that shocks everyone shoots Fiske in the back when he goes to leave. Revealing just how ruthless he is, he then calmly explains to the others that his cover story will be that his late ex-partner, “apparently still at large”, will take the blame for the missing payroll. Seeking to twist Blake’s confession back on him, Halliday then points out to Seton that if Blake gets rid of him too, he can cover his tracks with the army by giving the stolen money back to it and keep the $150,000 for himself. 
Alarmed, and taking no chances, Seton pulls a gun on everyone, and disarms Blake. Graham then creates a distraction for Halliday to jump Blake, whom he bests in a bruising fistfight, while she accidentally wounds Seaton during a successful struggle over his gun. Ortega is called to come make the arrests. 
Cleared by Ortega of all wrongdoing, Halliday is free to return to the army. When he indicates to a waiting Graham there is nothing to do in Mexico to keep him there any longer, she points his attention to a passing Mexican couple parading their seven children. He gets her drift as she smiles coyly.


== Cast ==

Robert Mitchum as Lt. Duke Halliday
Jane Greer as Joan Graham
William Bendix as Capt. Vincent Blake
Patric Knowles as Jim Fiske
Ramon Novarro as Inspector General Ortega
Don Alvarado as Lt. Ruiz
John Qualen as Julius Seton
Pascual García Peña as Manuel


== Production ==


=== Casting ===
Robert Mitchum's arrest for possession of marijuana on September 1, 1948, and his subsequent conviction and incarceration, had a large impact on the production of The Big Steal. RKO head Howard Hughes saw Mitchum's notoriety surrounding the arrest (the actor already seen as a 'bad boy' in Hollywood) as a positive that would boost attention for a rather low-rent - but hopefully profitable - production.
George Raft was originally cast, but was replaced by Mitchum after the arrest. Lizabeth Scott was slated for the female lead but quit three weeks prior to filming due to the arrest, and was replaced by Jane Greer (Mitchum and Greer had been earlier paired in the successful 1947 noir Out of the Past). Hughes had been keeping Gr