Steel Magnolias is a stage play by American writer Robert Harling, based on his experience with his sister's death. The play is a comedy-drama about the bond among a group of Southern women in northwest Louisiana.
The title suggests the "female characters are as delicate as magnolias but as tough as steel". The magnolia specifically references a magnolia tree they are arguing about at the beginning.


== Synopsis ==
Set in the fictional northwestern Louisiana parish of Chinquapin, the play opens at Truvy's in-home beauty parlor where a group of women regularly gather. They discuss Shelby's upcoming wedding to her fiancé, Jackson. The plot covers events over the next three years relating to Shelby's Type 1 diabetes, and with how the women cope with their conflicts, while remaining friends: Shelby's decision to have a child despite jeopardizing her health, Clairee's friendship with the curmudgeon Ouiser; Annelle's transformation from a shy, anxious newcomer in town to a good-time girl then repentant revival-tent Christian; and Truvy's relationships with the men in her family. Although the main storyline involves Shelby, her mother M'Lynn, and Shelby's medical battles, the group's underlying friendship is prominent throughout the drama.


== Historical casting ==


== Background ==
The play is based on the family experience of the death of author Robert Harling's sister, Susan Harling-Robinson, in 1985 from diabetic complications after the birth of his namesake nephew and the failure of a family-member-donated kidney. Following the death, a writer friend advised him to write it down to come to terms with the experience. He did but originally as a short story to give his nephew an understanding of the child's deceased mother. It evolved in ten days to a play performed Off-Broadway before being adapted for the Steel Magnolias movie (1989).
Harling, maybe based on his short, dry experience in the field of law ("not many laughs in Brown v. Board of Education"), felt it important to include the way the characters used humor and lighthearted conversations to cope with the seriousness of the underlying situations. Harling wanted the audience to have a true representation of what his family endured.


== Production history ==


=== US productions ===
The play originally opened Off-Broadway (with one set and an all-female cast although the voice of a male DJ on the radio is intermittent during the play with all male "characters" referenced only through dialogue) at the WPA Theatre, in New York City, on March 28, 1987, with Pamela Berlin as director.
The production transferred to the Lucille Lortel Theatre on June 19, 1987, and closed on February 25, 1990 after 1,126 performances. Replacements during the original Off-Broadway run included Anne Pitoniak, Bette Henritze, Rita Gardner, Maeve McGuire, and Stacy Ray.
A U.S. national tour was launched in 1989. Marion Ross joined the tour as Clairee late in the run.
The play made its Broadway debut in 2005 and opened at the Lyceum Theatre, in previews starting on March 15, and officially opened April 4, and closed on July 31, 2005, after 23 previews and 136 performances, directed by Jason Moore.
Guthrie Theater did a production from October 26 to December 15, 2019 directed by Lisa Rothe.


=== UK productions ===
The premiere UK production opened in the West End in March 1989 at the Lyric Theatre, directed by Julia McKenzie.
It returned to the West End for a limited engagement at the Westminster Theatre March 30-April 9, 1990, in a production mounted by Rose Bruford College.
A tour of the show opened at the Theatre Royal Bath on April 2, 2012, and was scheduled to play at ten theatres including the Richmond Theatre in London during an eleven-week run. It was directed by David Gilmore.


=== International productions ===
Australia:
Nicole Kidman made her professional stage debut in the first Australian production as Shelby. The show opened 18 May 1988 in the York Theatre at Sydney’s Seymour Centre 