Still Crazy is a 1998 British comedy film directed by Brian Gibson (his final film before his death in 2004). The plot concerns a fictional 1970s rock band named Strange Fruit, who, after being split up for two decades, are persuaded to get back together to perform at a reunion in the same concert venue where they played their last gig. The film focuses on the personal lives of the band members and those closest to them, and their individual experiences with approaching middle-age and the success that eluded them.
It was nominated for two Golden Globes in 1999 in two categories: best picture – musical/comedy and best song.


== Plot ==
The band Strange Fruit performs at the 1977 Wisbech Rock Festival. Hughie Case tells how, due to the pursuit of "fame, fortune and fornication" – and the drug overdose of their original singer, Keith Lovell – this is their last performance. After various issues, the band prematurely ends their performance, frustrated over competing egos and members' lack of self-control.
Twenty years later, a stranger who turns out to be the Festival's founder's son recognises keyboardist Tony Costello and convinces him to reunite the band for an anniversary show. Tony tracks down Karen Knowles, their original runaround-girl. Reluctant, she is inspired to return after finding memorabilia. She insists on being the manager, and Tony agrees. Gradually, Karen and Tony track down other members: bassist Les Wickes, now a family man and roofer; drummer David "Beano" Baggot, working at a nursery and on the run from the taxman; and lead singer Ray Simms who, after years of drug and alcohol abuse, is now sober. Though claiming to be working on a solo album, Simms has not released anything in ten years.
The band meets up at the Red Lion pub. Everyone expects Brian Lovell, the band's lead guitarist, to be there. Karen says she could not find him but learned he donated his royalties to charity; everyone assumes he died. Their roadie, Hughie, turns up during their first rehearsal to resume his original role. Ray insists on playing guitar but is convinced to sing. They find a replacement for Brian in young Luke Shand, a talented guitarist who is ignorant of the band's tensions.
Following a warm up European tour, Karen negotiates for the rights to their catalogue. Their initial performances are poorly received. Les, Beano and Hughie have little hope for the band, believing the dead Keith and missing Brian to be the main talent. Tony propositions Karen but she resists, remaining attached to Brian. At a gig, Ray's over-the-top ideas backfire and Les and Ray walk off. Following a confrontation with Les, Ray has a nervous breakdown, exacerbated by turning fifty. Ray leaves the gig, buys drugs and falls into a canal. Karen's daughter rescues him and Ray's wife blames Karen for his troubles. Following an angry reaction from locals over the noise, the band escape to their bus and flee.
Les and Ray make up and Ray says he "received a positive message" from Brian's ghost. The bus breaks down and Karen confronts the band about their lack of confidence. When the band meet a girl wearing a Strange Fruit tour T-shirt that belonged to her father, they take it as a good sign. The next few shows go well; the band becomes more optimistic. Following a record deal, the band records a new song written and sung by Les, which Ray had never allowed. After watching a recorded drunken TV interview in which Les and Beano imply that the band was better with Keith and Brian, Ray breaks down again and quits.
As the band members return to their former lives, Karen and Claire visit Keith's grave to pay their respects. They find a note that quotes "The Flame Still Burns", a tribute to Keith written by Brian. Hughie is then confronted by Karen and reluctantly admits he knows Brian is alive. Karen and Tony find Brian in a psychiatric hospital. He explains he gave up his material possessions to sever himself from his previous life. When he agrees to rejoin the b