Still Breathing is a 1997 drama film directed by James Ford Robinson and starring Brendan Fraser and Joanna Going. The film is set in Los Angeles, California and San Antonio, Texas, and was shot on location in these cities.


== Plot ==
Con artist Rosalyn Willoughby (Going) in Hollywood and puppeteer Fletcher McBracken (Fraser) in San Antonio have the same dream, which links them to each other. He travels to L.A. to find her, but at first she resists him.


== Cast ==
Lou Rawls as The Tree Man
Brendan Fraser as Fletcher McBracken
Joanna Going as Rosalyn Willoughby
Steven Lambert as Man in Alley
Chao Li Chi as Formosa Bartender
Ann Magnuson as Elaine
Paolo Seganti as Tomas De Leon
Wendy Benson-Landes as Brigitte
AJ Mallett as Little Boy in Dream
Katie Hagan as Little Girl in Dream
Celeste Holm as Ida, Fletcher's Grandmother
Toby Huss as  Cameron
Jeff Schweickert as Slammin' Sammy
Bill Gundry as Man With Painting
Angus Macfadyen as Philip
Liz Mamana as Slightly Elegant Girl


== Background ==
Director James Ford Robinson originated from the Texas area, and had previously written and directed a documentary in 1983 titled Miracle of Taxila, which focused on the work of Christian missionaries in Pakistan. His only other credits up until Still Breathing were all short films he had made during the 1980s.


== Release ==
Still Breathing premiered in the spring of 1997, at the South By Southwest Film Festival in Austin, Texas. Later in 1997, the film screened at the Chicago International Film Festival, the Montreal World Film Festival and the Seattle Filmfest. At the Seattle Filmfest, Brendan Fraser won the best actor award, while at the Montreal World Film Festival, the film was nominated for the Grand Prix des Amériques (Grand Prize of the Americas). In Australia, Still Breathing was released on VHS in late 1997. It received a limited U.S. theatrical release beginning on May 1, 1998, and was released to VHS later that year in the country.


== Reception ==
Still Breathing received generally favorable reviews from critics. On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, 62% of 13 critics' reviews are positive. In 1997, Joe Leydon of Variety praised Brendan Fraser's performance, writing that "Fraser is winning in a tricky role that calls for him to be at once engagingly innocent and nobody’s fool." Leydon went on to write that "Going, too, has to strike a challenging balance in her performance, and she is every bit as successful. Early on, it’s revealed that the seemingly hard-bitten Rosalyn has been distracted by her own golden-lit dreams. Going is extremely deft at revealing flashes of romantic yearning beneath her character’s tough facade." TV Guide labelled it a "fun offbeat romantic comedy", adding that it boasts "a winning cast and an imaginative premise." Hollis Chacona of The Austin Chronicle gave it three out of five stars, writing "the notion of Still Breathing is sweet and lovely, and possesses moments of breathtaking beauty — Fletcher turning a projector on Roz, using her skin as a sensuous, reflective screen; a miniature cairn constructed in the palm of a hand; Ida playing an easy, affectionate Chopin on her tuba. Adding to the charm is a marvelous and evocative soundtrack that completes rather than overwhelms the images. The picture has the power to enchant, it just can't sustain the spell."
A mixed review came from Stephen Holden of The New York Times in 1998. He compared Still Breathing to the Nicolas Cage and Meg Ryan film City of Angels and criticized Joanna Going's character, writing "the movie's biggest problem is Roz, an intransigent sourpuss for no discernible reason. Good-looking and successful with a bevy of eligible men at her beck and call, Roz mopes around Los Angeles in an inexplicable funk. Aside from her obvious beauty and intelligence, the movie never shows us what Fletcher finally sees in her." Holden had a more positive view of Brendan Fraser, writing, "if Fraser continues to take such roles, he could