The main titles of the Street Fighter fighting game series have introduced a varied cast of 87  characters from the main series, and 34 from several spin-offs, for a total of 121 playable characters who originate from 24 different countries around the world, each with his or her unique fighting style. This is a list of playable characters and non-playable opponents from the whole franchise. They are categorized based on the game in which they first became playable, including the original Street Fighter game, the Street Fighter II series, the Street Fighter Alpha series, the Street Fighter III series, the Street Fighter IV series, Street Fighter V, Street Fighter 6 and other related games.


== Characters ==
The table below summarizes every single fighter in the main series. A green cell indicates that the character is playable, with the number indicating the revision or version of the game they are introduced in (e.g. the numbers in Street Fighter V and Street Fighter 6 indicate the downloadable content season; number 0 indicates the character was part of the original or base game roster), a red cell indicates that the character does not appear in the game in any way, while a yellow cell indicates that the character makes an appearance as a non-playable character. Bold indicates the character's first playable appearance in the series.
Several titles have also introduced characters to the Street Fighter series that are considered canon only to their respctive media. This includes the Monitor Cyborg for the Street Fighter II: The Animated Movie and related game, Shin from the browser video game Street Fighter Online: Mouse Generation, and the characters Blade, Arkane, Kyber, F7, and Sawada from the arcade game based on the 1994 Street Fighter film. Several characters from the Street Fighter franchise also appear in Street Fighter EX and its subsequent re-releases and sequels. While these games introduce new characters, they have been since expanded into their own franchise under the Fighting Layer EX series, and ties to the Street Fighter cast removed.

Notes


== Introduced in Street Fighter ==


=== Adon ===
Voiced by: Wataru Takagi (SFA series), Atsushi Imaruoka (SFIV) (Japanese); R. Martin Klein (SFA: The Animation), Taliesin Jaffe (SFIV) (English)
Adon (アドン) introduced in the original Street Fighter as a Muay Thai warrior. He also appears in Alpha, Alpha 2 and Alpha 3. In the first two Alpha games, Adon is characterized as a former pupil of Sagat, seeking to surpass his disgraced master by defeating him, which he succeeds in the second Alpha game. In Alpha 3, he tries to track down and challenge Akuma. He briefly appears in Sagat's Street Fighter IV prologue, where he is defeated by Sagat. Adon is a playable character in Super Street Fighter IV, where decides to join the S.I.N tournament and gets his rematch with Sagat, defeating him there. In his ending, he makes fun of redundant Sagat and since then he refers to himself as a new Muay Thai master. Like Birdie and Eagle, Adon and Sagat share a motif: both characters' special moves are inspired by the jaguar, and the tiger.
Adon appears in one episode of the Street Fighter cartoon series as a non-speaking role. He also makes a brief cameo in Street Fighter Alpha: The Animation.
He was the only character created by Keiji Inafune for the original Street Fighter. Adon was included in a wishlist of characters by GamesRadar for inclusion in Street Fighter X Tekken. Adon is ranked 22nd in a worldwide Street Fighter character poll held between 2017 and 2018.


=== Birdie ===


=== Eagle ===
Voiced by: Jin Yamanoi (SFA3, Capcom vs. SNK 2)
Eagle (イーグル, Īguru) is a bouncer from England and a master of stick fighting derived from the combination of Eskrima and Singlestick. He craves to experience all fighting arts, searching for the perfect duel. He is introduced in the first Street Fighter as one of the opponents. Upon his reappearance in later titles, Eagle was redesigned and inspire