Striptease is a 1996 American black comedy film written, co-produced, and directed by Andrew Bergman, and starring Demi Moore, Armand Assante, Ving Rhames, Robert Patrick and Burt Reynolds. Based on Floridian crime writer Carl Hiaasen's 1993 best-selling novel of the same name, the film centers on an FBI secretary-turned-stripper who becomes involved in both a child-custody dispute and corrupt politics.
Moore was paid a then-unprecedented $12.5 million to star in Striptease, making her the highest-paid film actress up to that time. Released theatrically on June 28, 1996, by Columbia Pictures and produced by Castle Rock Entertainment, the film grossed $113 million worldwide against its $50 million budget. However, it was panned by critics, won six Golden Raspberry Awards including Worst Picture, and has come to be evaluated as one of the worst movies ever made. The debacle of the film marked a downturn in Moore's career.


== Plot ==
Former FBI secretary Erin Grant loses custody of her seven-year-old daughter Angela to her ex-husband Darrell, having recently lost her job because of his arrest record, as he was a drug addict who dealt in illegal drugs. To obtain the $15,000 needed to afford an appeal to retrieve her, Erin becomes a stripper at the Eager Beaver strip club in Miami. She attempts to probe his whereabouts from his older sister Rita, as he often relocates without informing Erin and uses Angela to steal wheelchairs from hospitals before selling them on the black market.
Congressman David Lane Dilbeck, representing Florida's 5th congressional district, visits the club and becomes infatuated with Erin. Aware of Dilbeck's embarrassing indulgences, another Eager Beaver patron, Jerry Killian, approaches Erin with a plan to manipulate Dilbeck in order to settle the custody battle and help her get Angela back. However, as he is the chairman of the subcommittee on sugar, Dilbeck has powerful business connections, including lobbyist Malcolm J. Moldowsky, his right-hand man, and father-and-son sugar barons Willie and Chris Rojo, who want to ensure he remains in office, as the Rojos' price supports are worth hundreds of millions of dollars. Consequently, those who could potentially humiliate him in an election are murdered.
Attorney Alan Mordecai, who has acquired photos of the night when Dilbeck became intoxicated at the club and assaulted fellow patron Paul Guber, his client, invites Shad, a bouncer and the club's head of security, to join him in a scheme to blackmail Dilbeck. Meanwhile, Jerry turns up dead in Lake Okeechobee while Miami Police Department Lieutenant Al Garcia is on vacation there with his wife Donna and son Andy, and an autopsy reveals that Jerry was drowned in tap water before being discarded in the lake. Finding photos of Erin all over Jerry's apartment, Garcia ventures to the Eager Beaver to ask Erin about Jerry. She explains her situation to him and that Jerry was trying to help her. She also asks Garcia to ensure that the Dade County police department drops Darrell as an informant for the vice squad, so that during her appeal he can be exposed as a criminal. Garcia, fully sympathetic to Erin's plight, complies. However, L.W. Fingerhut, the judge overseeing Erin's case in civil court, suffers a fatal heart attack and is pronounced dead on arrival at Don Shula Hospital, causing Erin's appeal to be delayed by six months. To protect her daughter, Erin retrieves Angela from Darrell's negligent care while the girl is staying with Darrell's sister Rita.
Alan approaches Dilbeck with the picture from the Eager Beaver, thus agitating Malcolm. After Erin takes Angela to work, Darrell ambushes her in her car outside the club at knifepoint, but Shad rescues her by breaking Darrell's arm. After Erin finishes her shift, Garcia arrives, shows Erin the photo being used to blackmail Dilbeck, who is infatuated with her, and tells her to contact him if Dilbeck threatens her. At this point Garcia realizes that Jerry was murde