All I Wanna Do (originally titled The Hairy Bird) is a 1998 American comedy film written and directed by Sarah Kernochan. It stars Kirsten Dunst, Gaby Hoffmann, Monica Keena, Heather Matarazzo and Rachael Leigh Cook in an ensemble cast as students of the fictional Miss Godard's Preparatory School for Girls, and Lynn Redgrave as the school's headmistress. The film takes place in 1963 and focuses on several students' plotting and sabotage of a proposed merger for the school to go coed.
Originally titled The Hairy Bird, the film's screenplay, set in 1963, is based loosely on Kernochan's experiences at Rosemary Hall around that time. Filming was done in Toronto, Ontario, Canada at the Trafalgar Castle School in Whitby. The song "The Hairy Bird" plays during the film's end credits; it was written by Kernochan and sung by a group which includes Kernochan and five of her Rosemary Hall classmates, including Glenn Close.
The film was given a limited release on September 4, 1998, in the United States under the title All I Wanna Do (as its American distributor Miramax Films found the original title too offensive), and was then acquired by Buena Vista Home Entertainment who released it straight-to-video. In Canada and the United Kingdom (as well as for later streaming distribution in the U.S.), it was released under the title Strike!.


== Plot ==
In the winter of 1963 in New England, Odette "Odie" Sinclair is forcibly transferred by her parents to Miss Godard's Preparatory School for Girls after her parents find out that she has planned to have sex with her boyfriend, Dennis.  Upon arrival to the school, which is run by the stern but kind headmistress Miss McVane, Odette is introduced to her roommates, the intelligent and charismatic Verena von Stefan and the promiscuous Tinka Parker.  Verena and Tinka are the school's primary troublemakers; both mock an uptight hall monitor named Abigail "Abby" Sawyer, who has a penchant for tattletaling, and Verena regularly buys cigarettes from a lunch cook and is constantly late for classes.
After a brief hazing period, Odie is welcomed into the D.A.R. (Daughters of the American Ravioli), a secret club of several girls at the school who have greater aspirations than those of their peers; the members congregate in the school's attic, where they have access to canned ravioli stored above the cafeteria.  The club is led by Verena, and consists of several other girls, including Theresa "Tweety" Goldberg, a bulimic who self-induces vomiting by drinking ipecac syrup and plans to be a child psychologist; and Maureen "Momo" Haines, a well-spoken science nerd and aspiring biologist.  Verena has plans to start a fashion magazine like Vogue, while Tinka plans to be an "actress-folk singer-slut".  Odie declares her interest in politics, but pines to finish what she started with Dennis and lose her virginity.
The D.A.R. begins planning a rendezvous for Odie and Dennis, but when it is discovered that Miss Godard's is considering going co-ed with the nearby St. Ambrose boys' academy, the girls become divided on the matter and ultimately the club breaks up, with Verena and Momo determined to sabotage an upcoming dance with the St. Ambrose boys.  Meanwhile, the board of trustees for the school, which include Abby's parents, deliberates on the matter.  Miss McVane detests the merger, but can do little about it because of the school's financial problems.
As the St. Ambrose dance arrives, Verena and Momo concoct a plan to cast the boys' academy in a bad light by spiking the fruit punch with alcohol from the chemistry lab and feeding them Tweety's ipecac to induce vomiting during their choir performance; Verena then plants empty liquor bottles in their school bus. The same night, Dennis arrives at the academy dressed in a St. Ambrose uniform and meets Odette for their rendezvous in the attic of the school. Just before they can consummate their relationship, Odette starts to have second thoughts when Dennis casually brush