The Sunchaser (marketed simply as Sunchaser in promotional material) is a 1996 road crime drama film directed by Michael Cimino, written by Charles Leavitt and starring Woody Harrelson and Jon Seda. It was director Cimino's last feature-length film.
It was selected to compete for the Palme d'Or at the 49th Cannes Film Festival.


== Plot ==
Brandon "Blue" Monroe, a 16-year-old half-Navajo gang member from East L.A., is serving time in prison for murdering his abusive stepfather. On an annual medical visit, Blue is told by Dr. Michael Reynolds, a wealthy, materialistic oncologist with a wife and daughter, that he is dying of abdominal cancer and has very little time left to live. Convinced that he can heal if he gets to a medicine man in Arizona he knew when he was 8, Blue kidnaps Michael, holding him at gunpoint, and forces him to drive them to a nearby garage where they switch cars.
Blue seeks to find Dibé Nitsaa (one of the six mountain lakes sacred to the Navajo people), said to heal the wounds of anyone who swims in its waters. Michael, however, bemoans his capture to Blue, seeking help to anyone who he comes across and complaining that he is missing out on a dinner engagement for promotion as head of the oncology department. The two men are instantly at odds with each other, separated by their education, class, race, and two very different world views. Michael believes that modern medicine has all the answers to whatever ails human beings, while Blue believes in Native American spirituality which honors the spirit world, sacred places, and herbal medicine. 
En route to Arizona, Michael and Blue have a rough encounter with a group of bikers in a small town, and a chase pursues. Later, Michael is bitten by a rattlesnake but is quickly treated for it by Blue, without medical equipment. Back in Los Angeles, Mrs. Reynolds elicits a police manhunt, and the authorities then attempt to track the two men on their eastward journey. As Michael grows closer to his abductor, he comes to terms with a harbored childhood secret that had haunted him; he was forced to take the life of his older brother, who was on his death bed and had asked a young Michael to pull the plug.
As Blue's condition worsens, Michael resorts to illegal means to obtain the needed medicine by breaking into a hospital in Flagstaff. The next morning, the two enter the Navajo reservation, but spot a police cruiser parked ahead of them. To escape, Michael drives off the main road and blends in with a cattle herd, becoming unnoticed in the dust kickup.
Eluding the authorities and finally committed to helping Blue on his quest, Michael manages to whisk Blue up the mountain. Meanwhile, a police helicopter spots their car parked nearby. Reaching the top, Blue is reunited with the medicine man, who directs him to the lake. Michael and Blue embrace, and the two part ways. As the helicopter spots Michael, Blue runs toward the lake, before mystically disappearing into its waters. Back in L.A., Michael, escorted by the police and wearing handcuffs, is reunited with his family.


== Cast ==


== Production ==
In 1994, Cimino was approached by Regency Enterprises producer Arnon Milchan to direct The Sunchaser, a script by Charles Leavitt that had been offered previously to Diane Keaton and Mel Gibson. Taking creative liberties with the screenplay, Cimino spent several months researching the gang culture of Los Angeles.
Parts of the film were shot in Downtown Los Angeles, the Mojave Desert, Arizona, Zion National Park, Utah and Colorado. To give authenticity to the dialogue, Cimino had several Navajo advisors on set at all times, including actor Leon Skyhorse Thomas, who gave input on the scenes between Woody Harrelson and Jon Seda.
Mickey Rourke, a collaborator and friend of Cimino's, believed the director "snapped" sometime during the making of The Sunchaser. "Michael is the sort of person that if you take away his money he short-circuits," Rourke said. "He is a man of honor."
