Superman III is a 1983 superhero film directed by Richard Lester from a screenplay by David Newman and Leslie Newman based on the DC Comics character Superman. It is the third installment in the Superman film series and a sequel to Superman II (1980). The film features a cast of Christopher Reeve, Richard Pryor, Jackie Cooper, Marc McClure, Annette O'Toole, Annie Ross, Pamela Stephenson, Robert Vaughn, and Margot Kidder.
Although the film recouped its budget of $39 million, it proved less successful than the first two Superman films, both financially and critically. While harsh criticism focused on the film's comedic and campy tone as well as on the casting and performance of Pryor, the special effects and Christopher Reeve's performance as Superman were praised.
A sequel, Superman IV: The Quest for Peace, was released in July 1987.


== Plot ==
The Metropolis-based conglomerate Webscoe hires Gus Gorman, a computer programmer who embezzles through salami slicing, which brings him to the attention of CEO Ross Webster. Webster, his sister Vera, and Webster's girlfriend Lorelei blackmail Gus into helping him.
At the Daily Planet, Clark Kent convinces Perry White to let him and Jimmy Olsen visit Smallville for Clark's high school reunion, while fellow reporter and Clark's unrequited romantic interest Lois Lane leaves for a Bermuda vacation. En route, as Superman, Clark extinguishes a fire in a chemical plant containing unstable beltric acid, which produces corrosive vapor when superheated.
At the reunion, Clark reunites with childhood friend Lana Lang, a divorcée with a young son named Ricky. Clark is harassed by Brad Wilson, his former bully and Lana's ex-boyfriend. While having a picnic with Lana, Superman saves an unconscious Ricky from being killed by a combine harvester.
Infuriated by Colombia's refusal to do business with him, Webster orders Gus to command Vulcan, an American weather satellite, to create a tornado to destroy Colombia's coffee crop, allowing Webster to corner the market. Gus travels to Smallville to use a Webscoe subsidiary to reprogram the satellite. Although Vulcan creates a storm, Superman neutralizes it. Seeing Superman as a threat to his plans, Webster orders Gus to fabricate Kryptonite. Gus uses Vulcan to analyze Krypton's debris. As one of the elements of Kryptonite is unknown, he substitutes tar.
Lana convinces Superman to appear at Ricky's birthday party, but Smallville turns it into a town celebration. Gus and Vera, disguised as Army officers, give Superman the flawed Kryptonite as an award. Rather than weaken him, he becomes selfish and commits petty acts of vandalism such as straightening the Leaning Tower of Pisa and blowing out the Olympic Flame.
Gus asks Webster to build the world's most sophisticated supercomputer; he agrees, if Gus creates an energy crisis by directing all oil tankers to the middle of the Atlantic Ocean. Lorelei seduces Superman, persuading him to waylay one of the tankers and cause an oil spill. 
Superman suffers a nervous breakdown and splits into two beings: the immoral, corrupted dark Superman and the moral, mild-mannered Clark Kent. The two fight, with Clark defeating his evil self. Regaining his sanity, Superman repairs the damage of the oil spill. After defending himself from exploding rockets and an ASALM missile, he confronts Webster, Vera, and Lorelei. The supercomputer identifies Superman's weakness and unleashes a beam of pure Kryptonite.
Guilt-ridden, Gus destroys the Kryptonite ray with an axe. Superman escapes, but the computer becomes self-aware, defending itself against Gus's attempts to disable it. The computer transforms Vera into a cyborg that attacks her brother and Lorelei with beams of energy that immobilize them. Superman returns with beltric acid. The intense heat emitted by the supercomputer causes the acid to become volatile, destroying the computer. Gus declines to return to Metropolis, deciding to make a fresh start in West Virginia.
As Clark, Sup