Surviving the Game is a 1994 American action-adventure film directed by Ernest R. Dickerson and written by Eric Bernt. It is loosely based on the 1924 short story "The Most Dangerous Game" by Richard Connell. The film stars Ice-T, Rutger Hauer, Charles S. Dutton, John C. McGinley, William McNamara, Gary Busey, and F. Murray Abraham.
Surviving the Game was released in the United States on April 15, 1994, by New Line Cinema. The film received negative reviews from critics and was a box office bomb, grossing $7.7 million against a production budget of $7.4 million (not including advertisement and distribution costs).


== Plot ==
Jack Mason, a homeless man from Seattle, Washington, loses his only friends—fellow homeless man Hank and his pet dog within a day of each other. Dejected, Mason attempts to commit suicide when a soup kitchen worker, Walter Cole, saves him. Cole refers him to businessman Thomas Burns, who offers Mason a job as a hunting guide. Despite his misgivings, Mason accepts.
Flying to a remote cabin surrounded by hundreds of acres of woods, Mason meets the rest of the hunting party, all of whom paid $50,000 for the privilege of being there. In addition to Burns and Cole, the party includes Doc Hawkins, the founder of the hunt and a psychiatrist, Texas "oil man" John Griffin, and wealthy Wall Street executive Derek Wolfe Sr. and his son Derek Wolfe Jr., the latter of whom is at first unaware of the true purposes of the hunt. On the first night, all the men are having dinner and chatting. Mason receives cigarettes from Hawkins and learns about his past. Hawkins relays a story from his childhood when his father forced him to fight and kill his dog as a lesson in being a man.
The following morning, Mason is awakened with a gun in his face by Cole, who explains that the men are not hunting any animals, but rather Mason himself. Mason is given a head start with only the time it takes the others to eat breakfast. Mason flees the area, but comes to a realization and turns back. The hunters finish their meal and go after him. Wolfe Jr. is horrified at the thought of killing a man, but is pushed into it by his father. The hunters race off into the forest, but by now Mason has returned to the cabin in search of weapons. He finds none, and instead makes the discovery of the hunters' trophy room behind a locked door: the preserved heads of the victims of previous hunts.
Mason decides to burn the cabin down using chemicals found outside the cabin. The hunters assume Mason's return to the cabin and return. Wolfe Sr. enters just as Mason lights up the cabin and engages in a fist fight with Hawkins out back, away from the others. Hawkins is knocked back into the cabin as the preserving agent explodes, killing him. Wolfe Jr. saves his father, and spots Mason fleeing in the process. The hunt resumes and Mason begins to use his wits to beat the hunters, luring them with lit cigarettes to lead them in the wrong way. Mason lures Griffin away from the others, and takes him hostage.
Over the night, Mason learns why Griffin is taking part in the hunt. Months ago, his daughter was killed by a homeless man and he is venting his rage, which was enhanced earlier when he asked Mason what happened to his family and Mason snarled "I killed them." However, Mason meant they died in an apartment fire and he could not save them. Griffin realizes that Mason blames himself for the tragedy. Griffin is freed by Mason, who returns to the group, having decided to not continue the hunting, but is murdered by Cole to prevent any future legal conflicts. Mason sabotages one of the remaining hunters' ATVs, causing it to explode. The explosion rips off most of Cole's lower body, mortally wounding him. Burns then uses his fingers to apply pressure to Cole's jugulars in order to mercy kill him. As they pursue Mason, Wolfe Jr. is killed by accident after falling in a ravine, and Wolfe Sr. vows revenge, furious.
The second night, Wolfe Sr. and Mason fight one on one