T-Men is a 1947 semidocumentary and police procedural style film noir about United States Treasury agents.  The film was directed by Anthony Mann and shot by noted noir cameraman John Alton. The production features Dennis O'Keefe, Mary Meade, Alfred Ryder, Wallace Ford, June Lockhart and Charles McGraw. A year later, director Mann used the film's male lead, Dennis O'Keefe, in Raw Deal.
The film was endorsed by the U.S. Treasury Department: the opening credits are displayed over an image of the department's seal, then former Chief Coordinator of the department's six agencies Elmer Lincoln Irey delivers a monologue describing the objectives of those agencies and lauding their accomplishments. He describes the movie as a composite case from its files entitled "The Shanghai Paper Case".


== Plot ==
In order to convict a counterfeiting ring, two United States Treasury agents are chosen to go undercover and infiltrate the Vantucci gang in Detroit. Dennis O'Brien and Anthony Genero are the agents, and they are to start at the bottom and work their way up the gang's hierarchy.  To infiltrate the gang they must appear to be criminals from the Detroit milieu, so they study the history of Detroit crime in order to create reliable false identities.  They declare themselves to be the last two members of the moribund River Gang, and that they are "on the lam". They become Vannie Harrigan (O'Brien) and Tony Galvani (Genaro), and convince Pasquale, the proprietor of a notorious hotel that they are real criminals.
Pasquale sends them to Vantucci, who uses counterfeit revenue stamps for his hijacked liquor. He surreptitiously quizzes them about local crime history, offering up incorrect facts which the agents are able to correct, and they are "hired." They hear the name of a gangster, "Schemer", and learn that he is the gang's West Coast liaison. They secretly obtain a pair of his overalls and send them to the bureau's crime lab for analysis, where his size, weight, the fact he smokes cigars, and the fact he chews Chinese health herbs are ascertained.  Armed with this information, O'Brien heads for Los Angeles.
O'Brien searches Chinatown following the herb lead, where he discovers that Schemer frequents steam baths.  He finds a man fitting Schemer's description who goes to a hotel where there's a backroom craps game. O'Brien bluffs his way in, then introduces a counterfeit bill into play. The phony bill is discovered and O'Brien is blamed; they beat him and throw him into the alley. O'Brien shows Schemer his fake bill (which he has recovered). His bill is well-printed since hand-engraved plates were used, but it has inferior paper. The gang's counterfeit bills are the opposite: lesser quality printing due to  mere photoengraving, but on superior stock. Schemer offers to approach a higher-up about a collaboration.
Gangsters await O'Brien in his apartment and rough him up, wanting to know his "game".  They suspect he is a Treasury agent, so he tells them to check with Detroit.  O'Brien is eventually taken to an exclusive home in Beverly Hills, where he meets a Mr. Triano. O'Brien proposes a merger, but Triano says he is all set, so O'Brien threatens to start his own operation.
O'Brien returns to Detroit and is given a sample of the gang's paper so he can print a bill on it using his plates. The result is acceptable, so O'Brien turns over the back plate, but says they'll get the front one when he meets the boss.
Tony's wife is out shopping with a friend who identifies Tony on the street. She attempts to engage him, but Tony claims he isn't married and doesn't know them. Tony's wife knows to deny it's Tony, but Schemer, who is with him, is suspicious.
Moxie locks Schemer into a steam room and turns up the heat, cooking him alive. Tony is overheard on a call asking about his wife. His cover blown, he is murdered in front of O'Brien. 
It is revealed that the gang's technician, Paul Miller, had worked with August Bauman, the engraver of the plates th