There have been numerous on screen adaptations of Shakespeare's The Taming of the Shrew. The best known cinematic adaptations are Sam Taylor's 1929 The Taming of the Shrew and Franco Zeffirelli's 1967 The Taming of the Shrew, both of which starred the most famous celebrity couples of their era; Mary Pickford and Douglas Fairbanks in 1929 and Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton in 1967. On television, perhaps the most significant adaptation is the 1980 BBC Television Shakespeare version, directed by Jonathan Miller and starring John Cleese and Sarah Badel.
The play has also been reworked numerous times for both cinema and television. Some of the better known adaptations include Kiss Me Kate, a 1953 filmic adaptation of Cole Porter's 1948 musical based on the play, McLintock! (1963), Il Bisbetico Domato (1980), 10 Things I Hate About You (1999), Deliver Us from Eva (2003) and Isi Life Mein...! (2010).


== Film ==


=== Silent era ===
The earliest cinematic adaptation of the play is D.W. Griffith's eleven-minute The Taming of the Shrew, made for Biograph in 1908, starring Florence Lawrence as Katherina and Arthur V. Johnson as Petruchio. The blurb for the film stated "if we could see ourselves as others see us what models we would become." Also released in Italy in 1908 was the seven-minute La bisbetica domata, directed by Azeglio Pineschi and Lamberto Pineschi. There is no known cast list for this film. Unlike all other silent adaptations, this version retains the Katherina/Bianca sibling rivalry. In 1911, F.R. Benson directed a twelve-minute silent filmed extract from his own Shakespeare Memorial Theatre production, starring himself and his wife, Constance Benson. The film presented a heavily truncated pantomime version of the story, with pieces of Shakespeare's original text used as intertitles throughout. It is now believed lost, although several stills survive in the library archives of the Shakespeare Birthplace Trust. Also released in France in 1911 was La mégère apprivoisée, directed by Henri Desfontaines and starring Madeleine Barjac and Romauld Joubé. It is thought to be the first version to show scenes which take place off-stage in the play; in this case, the wedding and the journey to Petruchio's house. A 1913 Italian version, the twenty-two-minute La bisbetica domata, was directed by Arrigo Frusta and starred Gigetta Morano and Eleuterio Rodolfi. This version also shows scenes not in the play. Another English adaptation was released in 1915, directed by and starring Arthur Backner. This version is also lost. Intended more as a showcase for a new type of sound system than an adaptation of the play, the film consisted entirely of the scene where Petruchio and Katherina first meet. Shot using a process known as Voxograph, the actors spoke the complete text during filming, and when the film was played at the theatre, "the same actors, one at each side of the screen but unseen, repeated the words in what was supposed to be synchronisation. It was expected that the operator, after rehearsal, would be able to project the film so that picture and voice would jibe." The earliest surviving British filmic adaptation is Edwin J. Collins' 1923 version, adapted by Eliot Stannard, and starring Dacia Deane and Lauderdale Maitland. One of a series of forty-minute adaptations of classic texts released under the Gems of Literature banner, only the second half of the film survives, and the final scene is incomplete as a result of print damage. This version very much adopts Petruchio's perspective, and one of the intertitles reads "by noon the next day, though famished and weary for want of food and rest, the Shrew deep in her heart admired the man whose temper is greater than her own."


=== Sam Taylor (1929) ===

The first sound adaptation of the play was in 1929; Sam Taylor's The Taming of the Shrew, starring Mary Pickford and Douglas Fairbanks (the first sound adaptation of any Shakespeare play). This version was simultaneously shot