The Tango Lesson (Spanish: La lección de tango) is a 1997 drama film written and directed by Sally Potter. It is a semi-autobiographical film starring Potter and Pablo Verón, about Argentinian Tango.
The film, a co-production of Argentina, France, Germany, Netherlands and the United Kingdom, was produced by Christopher Sheppard in Britain and Oscar Kramer in Argentina, and was shot mostly in black and white in Paris and Buenos Aires. The soundtrack includes original recordings of Carlos Gardel's Mi Buenos Aires querido and Ástor Piazzolla's Libertango, two of the most iconic tangos in the history of the genre. It also includes an original song written and sung by Potter.


== Synopsis ==
Sally, a filmmaker and screenwriter suffering from writer's block, is dissatisfied with her film project, a murder mystery called Rage, which features the fashion industry. Taking a break, she travels to Paris, where she sees the dancer Pablo (Pablo Verón) performing tango. She becomes obsessed with the dance and offers Pablo a part in her film in exchange for dance lessons. The two become deeply involved as dancers and as lovers. Their emotional intimacy threatens the success of their dancing together. The film explores the conflict between the woman dancer accepting the man's lead in the dance, while the man must accept the woman's lead in the film. It is a love story and a showcase for Verón's dancing.


== Cast ==
Sally Potter as Sally
Pablo Verón as Pablo
Morgane Maugran as Red Model
Géraldine Maillet as Yellow Model
Katerina Mechera as Blue Model
David Toole as Fashion Designer
George Yiasoumi as Photographer
Michele Parent as Seamstress
Claudine Mavros as Seamstress
Monique Couturier as Seamstress
Matthew Hawkins as Bodyguard
Simon Worgan as Bodyguard
Carolina Iotti as Pablo's partner
Zobeida as Pablo's Friend
Orazio Massaro as Pablo's Friend
Gustavo Naveira as Gustavo
Fabián Salas as Fabian
Carlos Copello as Carlos
María Noel as Film Executive
Gregory Dayton as Film Executive


== Distribution ==
The film was first presented at the Venice Film Festival in Italy on 29 August 1997. It was screened at the Toronto International Film Festival in Canada on 8 September. The picture screened at various film festivals, including the Mar del Plata Film Festival in Argentina, the Reykjavik Film Festival in Iceland, the Istanbul Film Festival in Turkey, and others.


== Film soundtrack ==
Milonga Triste composed by Sebastián Piana and Homero Manzi, performed by Hugo Díaz y su Conjunto, recorded in Buenos Aires in 1972.
Now composed by Sally Potter & Fred Frith, sung by Sally Potter, recorded in Paris 1996.
Quejas de bandoneón composed by Juan de Dios Filiberto, performed by Aníbal Troilo y su Orquesta típica, recorded in Buenos Aires in 1958.
Red, yellow, blue composed by Sally Potter & Fred Frith, recorded in Paris in 1996.
Mi Buenos Aires querido composed by Carlos Gardel and Alfredo Le Pera, sung by Carlos Gardel, recorded in New York in 1934.
El flete composed by Gerónimo Gradito and Vicente Greco, performed by Juan D'Arienzo y su Orquesta Típica, recorded in Buenos Aires in 1936.
Rage composed by Sally Potter & Fred Frith, sung by Sally Potter, recorded in Paris in 1996.
Zum composed by Astor Piazzolla, performed by Osvaldo Pugliese y su Orquesta, recorded in Buenos Aires in 1973.
Amor y celos composed by Miguel Padula & Alfredo F. Roldán, performed by Juan D'Arienzo y su Orquesta Típica, recorded in Buenos Aires in 1936.
Doyna composed by Frank London, David Licht & David Krakauer, performed by The Klezmatics, recorded in New York in 1994.
Danse de cuisine composed by Sally Potter & Fred Frith, sung by Sally Potter, recorded in Paris in 1996.
Pensalo bien composed by Juan Jose Visiglio, Nola Lopez & Julio Alberto, sung by Alberto Echague with the Juan D'Arienzo y su Orquesta Típica, recorded in Buenos Aires in 1938.
La yumba composed by Osvaldo Pugliese, performed by Osvaldo Pugliese y su Orquesta, recorded in Buenos Aires in 1946.
Jacob and