Target Corporation is an American retail corporation that operates a chain of discount department stores and hypermarkets, headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota. It is the seventh-largest retailer in the United States, and a component of the S&P 500 Index. The company is one of the largest American-owned private employers in the United States.
The corporation was founded in Minneapolis by businessman George Dayton in 1902, and developed through the years via expansion and acquisitions. Target, the company's first discount store and eventual namesake, was opened in 1962. The company became the Dayton-Hudson Corporation after merging with the J.L. Hudson Company in 1969 and formerly held ownership of several department store chains including Dayton's, Hudson's, Marshall Field's, and Mervyn's. The parent company was renamed the Target Corporation in 2000.
Target is notable for its focus on upscale, trend-forward merchandise at lower costs. Its stores typically sell general merchandise—including clothing, household goods, electronics, toys, and more—as well as groceries. Its name and logo refer to the center of a shooting target, and its canine mascot is named Bullseye. Target expanded throughout the U.S. in the late 20th century, cementing its place in American popular culture. Its main competitors include Walmart and Amazon. The corporation also operates 41 distribution centers, a financial services division, a global capabilities center in Bangalore, India, and two criminal forensics laboratories.
As of 2023, Target operates 1,948 stores throughout the United States, and is ranked No. 32 on the 2022 Fortune 500 list of the largest U.S. corporations by total revenue. It has been consistently ranked as one of the most philanthropic companies in the U.S. Attempts to take the chain international have proved unsuccessful. Target Corporation's headquarters is located on Nicollet Mall in Minneapolis.


== History ==

The history of what would become Target Corporation first began in June 1902, when George Dayton purchased a company called Goodfellow Dry Goods. The company was renamed the Dayton's Dry Goods Company in 1903 and later the Dayton Company in 1910. The first Target store opened in Roseville, Minnesota, in 1962 while the parent company was renamed the Dayton Corporation in 1967. It became the Dayton-Hudson Corporation' after merging with the J. L. Hudson Company in 1969 and held ownership of several department-store chains including Dayton's, Hudson's, Marshall Field's, and Mervyn's. In 2000, the Dayton-Hudson Corporation was renamed to Target Corporation.


== Store formats/history ==


=== Target ===

The first Target discount store opened in Roseville, Minnesota, a suburb of Minneapolis–Saint Paul, on May 1, 1962. Present-day properties are roughly 135,000 square feet (12,500 m2) and sell general merchandise, including hardlines and softlines. While many Target stores follow a standard big-box architectural style, the company has focused on "customizing each new store to ensure a locally relevant experience [...] that best fit the surrounding neighborhood's needs" since August 2006. Initially, only SuperTarget locations operated Starbucks Coffee counters, although they were integrated into general-merchandise stores through their expanded partnership beginning in 2003. Many Stores also feature Pizza Hut Express counters (at most in the self-service snack bar), along with Starbucks.
Target introduced the "PFresh" store prototype in 2008, which expanded its grocery selection in general-merchandise locations by upwards of 200%. Newly constructed stores that follow the PFresh format are roughly 1,500 sq ft (140 m2) larger than properties without groceries, although retain the Target branding because their offerings are considerably more limited than SuperTarget. PFresh sells perishable and frozen foods, baked goods, meat, and dairy. The company remodeled 109 stores accordingly in 2009, and renovated another 350 stores the f