The Legend of Tarzan is an American animated television series produced by Walt Disney Television Animation, based on Tarzan from the novels written by Edgar Rice Burroughs, the character's original creator who appears in one episode of the series. The series is also based on Disney's 1999 animated feature film Tarzan by Walt Disney Pictures and aired initially on the Disney's One Too block on UPN. However, reruns were broadcast shortly after on Toon Disney.
The series picks up where Disney's 1999 animated feature film left off, with the title character adjusting to his new role as leader of the gorilla family following Kerchak's death, along with Jane (whom he has since married) and her father, Professor Archimedes Q. Porter, adjusting to life in the jungle. The three now reside in the treehouse built by Tarzan's original human parents.


== Characters ==


=== Main ===
Tarzan (voiced by Michael T. Weiss) has assumed his role as leader of the gorillas. He married Jane, and they live in the jungle, residing in the treehouse that Tarzan's parents had built before their deaths. Although Tarzan doesn't live with Kala and the other gorillas, Tarzan will still take action to protect them and often seeks Kala's advice in dealing with situations. While Tarzan helps Jane get over her romantic ideas about jungle life, she acts as his guide to the duplicity of human nature — and insists he eats his food from a plate. It is a never-ending growth process for both, with insights into what "being civilized" means.
Jane (voiced by Olivia d'Abo) is married to Tarzan. She has settled into her new jungle life with Tarzan. When she begins to miss her old life in England, she tries to get Tarzan to act more "civilized," which sometimes poses problems to Tarzan's character. Her appearance and human actions often cause some members of Tarzan's gorilla tribe to have doubts about her and question Tarzan's leadership.
Terk (voiced by April Winchell) is a fun-loving female gorilla and Tarzan's closest friend and older adoptive cousin. She has a soft-spot for Tarzan and is convinced that he cannot survive without her, despite Tarzan having proven repeatedly to be quicker, stronger, and more powerful at just about everything in the jungle than Terk.
Tantor the Elephant (voiced by Jim Cummings) is paranoid and nervous but will always protect Tarzan and his friends. He shares a close bond with Terk and has grown close to Professor Porter.
Kala (voiced by Susanne Blakeslee) acts as the voice of the apes, reminding Tarzan of his particular obligations to the family. She is also Jane's closest friend. The two share a warm, strong bond, and Jane regards her mother-in-law as her only kindred spirit in the jungle. From Kala's point of view, Jane is the human daughter she never had. Her open mind is a well of great wisdom, and she is almost always right. Even though Kerchak is gone, she is still highly respected. Although kind and motherly to Tarzan, Jane, and all the gorillas, Kala is almost undoubtedly the bravest gorilla in the family.
Professor Porter (voiced by Jeff Bennett) is a noted scientist with years of expertise studying gorillas, though before arriving in Africa in the first film, he had never seen one in the wild. Sometimes the well-meaning professor gets absorbed in his thinking but often forgets what he's doing. Jeff Bennett replaces the late Nigel Hawthorne (who died after the show's premiere).
Kerchak (voiced by Lance Henriksen) was the mate of Kala and the adoptive father of Tarzan. Kerchak is mentioned posthumously and appears in several flashbacks in the series. Tarzan made a statue of him to commemorate his adoptive father and predecessor as leader of the gorilla troop. Henriksen is one of only three actors to reprise their roles from the film.


=== Allies ===
Flynt (voiced by Erik von Detten) and Mungo (voiced by Jason Marsden) are clueless ape brothers. Flynt and Mungo have grown up along Tarzan, but they're still as dopey as ever. Most l