Tarzan the Fearless is a 12 chapter American Pre-Code film serial starring Buster Crabbe in his only appearance as Tarzan. It was also released as a 61-minute feature film which consisted of the first four chapters edited together, and which was intended to be followed on a weekly basis by the last eight chapters in individual episode format, but which was often exhibited instead as a stand-alone feature film. Actress Jacqueline Wells co-starred; she later changed her name to Julie Bishop. The serial was produced by Sol Lesser, written by Basil Dickey, George Plympton and Walter Anthony (based on the character created by Edgar Rice Burroughs), and directed by Robert F. Hill.  The film was released in both formats on August 11, 1933.


== Plot ==
Tarzan is swinging around the trees and enjoying spending time with his chimpanzee friend Cheetah. Suddenly there is a lion below that's about to attack a deer caught in a trap. Tarzan jumps down from the trees with his knife and lands on the lion. The two of them fight while a group of natives watch. Tarzan wins the fight after an intense struggle, destroying the lion. He lets out a massive victory yell and rescues the deer. 
Tarzan rescues Dr. Brooks, an elderly scientist, who is held by the followers of Zar, God of the Emerald Fingers, in their lost city.  Mary Brooks, his daughter, and Bob Hall have also been searching for him, led by villainous safari guides, Jeff Herbert and Nick Moran.
Tarzan goes in search of Mary and finds her swimming and a Nile crocodile appears and Tarzan dives in to save her, wrestling the monstrous crocodile itself and saving Mary. Tarzan and Mary become interested in each other. Safari guide Jeff is out to kill Tarzan for 10,000 pounds. Soon everyone is captured by the people of Zar and brought before Eltar, their high priest. Bob convinces the high priest to release them by handing over a map.  Jeff is killed by Tarzan in a struggle over a gun and Nick is killed by a lion. Mary and her father decide to stay with Tarzan instead of returning to civilization with Bob Hall.


== Cast ==
Buster Crabbe as Tarzan
Jacqueline Wells as Mary Brooks, a pseudo-Jane character
E. Alyn Warren as Dr. Brooks, Mary's father. He is entirely based on Professor Porter (Jane's father).
Mischa Auer as Eltar, High Priest of Zar
Edward Woods as Bob Hall, friend to Mary and Dr. Brooks
Philo McCullough as Jeff Herbert, villainous safari guide
Matthew Betz as Nick Moran, another villainous safari guide


== Production ==
Producer Sol Lesser had acquired the rights to five Tarzan films that Edgar Rice Burroughs had optioned to an independent producer in 1928.  That producer went bankrupt and the contract was thought to have lapsed.  However, due to the wording of the contract the courts found in Lesser's favour and held that it was still valid.  Lesser announced his own Tarzan production a few weeks into the filming of MGM's Tarzan the Ape Man.  MGM paid Lesser to delay production until their film was released.  Tarzan the Fearless was the first of Sol Lesser's Tarzan productions.  Lesser never made another serial with his options, moving to feature films instead.  Burroughs had assured MGM that their contract was exclusive, so the rival production was an embarrassment. However, despite their initial problems, Lesser and Burroughs became friends and later worked out a five-picture deal (at one per year).
The "serial was extremely crude" and "almost devoid of music" as well as suffering from poor sound.  A score was later taken from old westerns and "minutes passed" with silent (no sound effects, music or dialogue) stock footage of distant animals.  The "Tarzan yell" was the James Pierce version, taken from the radio series.  The serial was shot under the working title Tarzan the Invincible and was released as Tarzan the Fearless.


=== Casting ===

Lesser's contract included a clause that Tarzan must be played by "Big Jim" Pierce, Burroughs' son-in-law and the star of Tarzan and the