Tequila Sunrise is a 1988 American romantic crime film written and directed by Robert Towne, and starring Mel Gibson, Michelle Pfeiffer and Kurt Russell, with Raul Julia, J. T. Walsh, Arliss Howard and Gabriel Damon in supporting roles. The film's original music score was composed by Dave Grusin.
The film was the second (after Personal Best) to be both written and directed by Academy Award-winning screenwriter Towne.  It was commercially successful, grossing over $100 million at the box office worldwide, but its critical reception was mixed. One period reviewer was of the opinion that, "perhaps because the elements were so irresistible—Robert Towne directing Gibson, Russell and Pfeiffer in a California crime film—an aura of disappointment settled over Tequila Sunrise, no matter how engaging, and profitable, it turned out to be."
Tequila Sunrise was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Cinematography. The film's soundtrack spawned the single "Surrender to Me", performed by Ann Wilson (lead singer of Heart) and Robin Zander (lead singer of Cheap Trick), reaching number 6 on the Billboard Hot 100 in early 1989.


== Plot ==
Former drug dealer Dale "Mac" McKussic is trying to go straight. His close friend Nick Frescia is a Detective Lieutenant with the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department who, in spite of their long-term relationship going back to high school, is duty-bound to bring Mac to justice if he should sell drugs again, as DEA Agent Hal Maguire believes to be the case.
Mac is attracted to restaurant owner Jo Ann Vallenari. Nick becomes acquainted with her while attempting to learn more about Mac's activities, in particular his relationship with the Mexican drug kingpin Carlos, whom the DEA agents and Mexican federal police commandante' Escalante believe is coming to town. Mac has a legitimate business and is raising a son, trying to distance himself from his old life. However, he tries to help his lawyer sell some cocaine and feels indebted to his old friend Carlos, who is pressuring him to do one last job.
Jo Ann succumbs to Nick's charms and a love affair begins. During a meeting at Jo Ann's restaurant with Maguire and Escalante to discuss Mac and Carlos, Escalante gives Nick a pistol as a gesture of good faith. Jo Ann accuses Nick of using her to gather information on Mac, who often eats at her restaurant and hired her to cater his son's birthday party. 
Nick admits he is investigating Mac and originally approached her because of that. But he truthfully has fallen in love with her. Jo Ann ends her relationship with Nick for his initial deception after catching him trying to listen in on a private telephone conversation. Meanwhile, Maguire and his associates set a trap for Mac and the mysterious Carlos, whose face no one but Mac has ever seen.
Jo Ann eventually realizes Mac is in love with her and she has fallen for him. Nick figures out that Mac's cousin Gregg is an informer for the DEA and Maguire has become dangerously obsessed with catching Mac. Mac and Jo Ann make love at his house. 
At Jo Ann's restaurant, Nick meets her, gives her a pistol (the one Escalante previously gave him) for protection, and tells her to stay there until a deputy sheriff arrives to guard her, because Carlos is expected to arrive at Mac's home later that night. Ignoring Nick's warning, she returns to Mac's house and discovers that Escalante is, in fact, Carlos.
Carlos relieves her of Nick's pistol, recognizing it, and takes her to his yacht at the marina. He knows Gregg is the informer and has him killed, leaving his body next to a shipment of gasoline-contaminated cocaine. Maguire and Nick find Gregg's body and the cocaine at the beach. Nick meets with Mac to warn him that Jo Ann is in danger. 
Mac pulls a gun on Nick and rushes to the marina. Carlos pressures him to kill Jo Ann, who now knows too much. He refuses, threatens Carlos at gunpoint and gets Jo Ann to safety on a speedboat. Mac nevertheless promises him that he will be at t