Them! is a 1954 American black-and-white science fiction monster film from Warner Bros. Pictures, produced by David Weisbart, directed by Gordon Douglas, and starring James Whitmore, Edmund Gwenn, Joan Weldon, and James Arness. The film is based on an original story treatment by George Worthing Yates, which was then developed into a screenplay by Ted Sherdeman and adaptation by Russell Hughes.
Them! is one of the first of the 1950s "nuclear monster" films, and the first "big bug" feature film to use insects as the monster.
A nest of gigantic irradiated ants is discovered in the New Mexico desert; they quickly become a national threat when it is discovered that two young queen ants and their consorts have escaped to establish new nests. The national search that follows finally culminates in a battle with Them in the concrete spillways and storm drain system of Los Angeles.


== Plot ==
New Mexico State Police Sgt. Ben Peterson and his partner, Ed Blackburn, discover a little girl in a catatonic state wandering the desert near Alamogordo, and later a ravaged caravan with its owners missing. After they summon an ambulance, the girl reacts, unnoticed by the adults, to a pulsating high-pitched sound coming from the desert by sitting upright, eyes open, and then she lies back as the noise ceases.
Later that night at a rural general store, the officers stumble upon the owner's dead body. Peterson leaves Blackburn behind to secure the crime scene. Upon hearing a strange, pulsating sound outside, Blackburn goes to investigate and disappears. Days later, FBI Agent Robert Graham arrives to investigate. Additionally, the Department of Agriculture sends myrmecologists Drs. Harold Medford and daughter Pat to lend assistance. Medford exposes the little girl to formic acid fumes, characteristic of ants. The odor releases her from her catatonia, and in panic she cries, "Them! Them!"
Peterson accompanies Graham and the Medfords to the location where the girl was first discovered. There, Pat encounters a giant foraging ant. Following Medford's orders, Peterson and Graham shoot off the ant's antennae, blinding and killing it with a submachine gun. Medford theorizes that giant ants, mutated by radiation from the first atomic bomb test near Alamogordo, are responsible for the area's deaths. A helicopter search ensues, and the giant ants' nest is found. Cyanide gas bombs are tossed inside before Graham, Peterson, and Pat check for survivors. In the nest, Pat finds evidence that two queens have hatched and escaped to establish new colonies. A worldwide search is begun. One queen and its offspring are discovered aboard a freighter sailing from Acapulco, with no survivors among the crew. The freighter is subsequently sunk by the Navy.
Graham and Pat then travel to Brownsville, Texas, to interrogate a civilian pilot, committed to a mental hospital after claiming he was forced down by UFOs shaped like giant ants. A later report sends the investigators west to a Los Angeles hospital, where one patient claims he has seen giant ants in the drainage system outside his window. The mutilated body of a father is found, but his two young sons are missing. With help from Graham, the Medfords, and the armed forces, Peterson searches inside the drain system for the two boys. He finds them trapped by the ants near their nest. He calls for reinforcements and lifts the boys to safety, just before being attacked and killed by a giant ant. Graham arrives with the military, and they find the remaining queen and her hatchlings. The Medfords sanction their destruction, and the ants are dispatched via flamethrowers, as Pat's father considers the possible consequences of all the other atomic tests since Trinity.


== Cast ==
James Whitmore as Sgt. Ben Peterson
Edmund Gwenn as Dr. Harold Medford
Joan Weldon as Dr. Pat Medford
James Arness as FBI Agent Robert Graham
Onslow Stevens as General O'Brien
Sean McClory as Major Kibbee
Chris Drake as Trooper Ed Blackburn
Sandy Descher