There's Something About Mary is a 1998 American romantic comedy film directed by Peter Farrelly and Bobby Farrelly, who co-wrote it with Ed Decter and John J. Strauss. The film features Cameron Diaz as the title character, while Ben Stiller, Matt Dillon, Lee Evans, and Chris Elliott all play men who are in love with Mary, and vying for her affection.
There's Something About Mary was released theatrically on July 15, 1998, by 20th Century Fox. It received generally positive reviews from critics, who praised its humor and Diaz's performance. The film became a major box office success, grossing over $369 million worldwide against its $23 million budget, becoming the fourth-highest-grossing film of the year. It is placed 27th in the American Film Institute's 100 Years, 100 Laughs: America's Funniest Movies, a list of the 100 funniest movies of the 20th century. In 2000, readers of Total Film magazine voted There's Something About Mary the fourth-greatest comedy film of all time.
Diaz won a New York Film Critics Circle Award for Best Actress, an MTV Movie Award for Best Performance, an American Comedy Award for Best Actress, a Blockbuster Entertainment Award for Best Actress. Her performance additionally was nominated for the Golden Globe Award for Best Actress – Motion Picture Musical or Comedy. The film was also nominated for a Golden Globe Award for Best Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy. It won four out of eight MTV Movie Awards, including Best Movie.


== Plot ==
In 1985, Providence, Rhode Island, 16-year-old high school student Ted Stroehmann is about to go on a prom date with his dream girl, Mary Jensen, when he gets his scrotum stuck in his zipper. He is hospitalized after managing to painfully unzip it, which causes him to miss their date. Ted subsequently loses contact with her.
Thirteen years later, in 1998, Ted is a magazine writer and still in love with Mary. On the advice of his best friend, Dom Woganowski, Ted hires private investigator Pat Healy to track her down. Healy discovers that she is an orthopedic surgeon living in Miami with her intellectually disabled brother Warren. After observing her for a few days, Healy also becomes fixated on her. He returns to Providence and lies to Ted about Mary, telling him she is overweight and has four kids by three different men. Healy quits his job and returns to Miami to pursue her. He resorts to lying and stalking to win Mary over.
Meanwhile, Ted finds out that Healy was lying about Mary and drives to Florida to see her. During the drive, he picks up a hitchhiker who leaves a dead body in his car. Ted is mistakenly arrested for the murder and bailed out by Dom after the hitchhiker confesses to being the killer. Healy and Mary spend several weeks dating before her British architect friend Tucker exposes his lies. She ends their relationship after Tucker slanders Healy with false stories of being a suspected serial killer. Angered over this, Healy confronts him and discovers Tucker actually is an American pizza delivery boy named Norm Phipps who also is infatuated with Mary. Years earlier, Norm deliberately injured himself in order to become her patient and get close to her. He pretends to still be disabled to stay close, and drive away other possible love interests. When Ted and Mary begin dating again, Healy and Norm team up to drive Ted away. 
When Mary reads an anonymous letter revealing that Ted hired Healy to find her, she becomes upset and dumps him. Ted then angrily confronts Healy and Norm, who deny sending the letter, and Ted leaves in frustration. Dom, who is revealed to be Mary's ex-boyfriend "Woogie", later shows up in her apartment and admits to writing the letter. She previously had a restraining order against Dom after he became obsessed with her, which started again when Ted found her despite being married with kids.
Norm and Healy, listening outside, intervene and save Mary from Dom. Ted then arrives along with Brett Favre, an ex-boyfriend Mary dumped after