"22 Short Films About Springfield" is the twenty-first episode of the seventh season of the American animated television series The Simpsons. It originally aired on the Fox Network in the United States on April 14, 1996. It was written by Richard Appel, David X. Cohen, Jonathan Collier, Jennifer Crittenden, Greg Daniels, Brent Forrester, Dan Greaney, Rachel Pulido, Steve Tompkins, Josh Weinstein, Bill Oakley, and Matt Groening, with the writing being supervised by Daniels. The episode was directed by Jim Reardon. Phil Hartman guest-starred as Lionel Hutz and the hospital board chairman.
The episode depicts brief incidents experienced by a wide array of Springfield residents in a series of interconnected stories that take place over a single day. The episode's concept originated from the end segment of the season four episode "The Front", which gave the staff the idea of a possible spin-off from The Simpsons, and serves as a loose parody of Pulp Fiction. The title is a reference to the film Thirty Two Short Films About Glenn Gould.
The episode received positive reviews from critics and is noted for its popularity among fans, with the "Steamed Hams" segment becoming a popular Internet meme in 2016.


== Plot ==
The episode is a series of shorts ranging in length from under half a minute to over two and a half minutes, each showing daily life in Springfield, after Bart wonders if anything interesting happens to the town's citizens.

Bart and Milhouse spit and squirt condiments from a highway overpass onto cars, then go to the Kwik-E-Mart.
Apu closes the Kwik-E-Mart for five minutes to attend a party at Sanjay's house, trapping Moleman in the store.
Bart unknowingly throws gum in Lisa's hair, and Marge tries to remove the gum by putting peanut butter and mayonnaise on her hair. Lisa's hair attracts a swarm of bees, one of which flies away.
While bike riding with Mr. Burns, Smithers suffers an allergic reaction to the bee's sting and rides to the hospital, but the orderlies admit only Burns.
Dr. Nick is criticized by the hospital board for his unorthodox medical procedures, only to treat Grampa with an electric light socket, saving his career.
Moe gets robbed by Snake after Barney gives Moe $2,000 to pay for a portion of his $14 billion bar tab.
While hosting Superintendent Chalmers for lunch, Principal Skinner burns his roast and bluffs his way through the meal, setting his house on fire in the process.
Homer accidentally traps Maggie in a newspaper vending box.
Chief Wiggum, Lou, and Eddie compare McDonald's and Krusty Burger.
Bumblebee Man arrives home after a horrible day at work and his house is destroyed, causing his wife to leave him.
Snake runs Wiggum over, and their ensuing fight ends with Herman capturing them at gunpoint in his store.
Reverend Lovejoy urges his pet Old English Sheepdog to use Ned Flanders's lawn as a toilet.
Various townspeople advise Marge and Lisa how to remove the gum stuck in Lisa's hair.
Cletus offers Brandine some shoes he found on a telephone line.
Milhouse tries to use the bathroom in Comic Book Guy's Android's Dungeon, but can only use it if he buys something, and his father forces him to leave the store before he can use it. They go to use the bathroom in Herman's store and Milhouse accidentally knocks out Herman with a flail, saving his father, Snake, and Wiggum.
Jake the barber cuts the gum out of Lisa's hair, leaving her with a different hairstyle.
Nelson laughs at Lisa's new haircut and Ian, an extremely tall man in a Volkswagen Beetle, then publicly humiliates Nelson to teach him a lesson.
Bart and Milhouse squirt ketchup and mustard onto Nelson from the overpass, and conclude that life is interesting in their town after all.
Professor Frink attempts to tell his story but is cut off by the ending credits.


== Production ==
The episode's principal idea came from the season four episode "The Front", which contained a short sequence entitled The Adventures of Ned Flanders, featuring its own 