The Three Musketeers: D'Artagnan (French: Les Trois Mousquetaires : D'Artagnan, titled The Three Musketeers – Part I: D'Artagnan in the United States) is a 2023 epic action-adventure film and the first of a two-part epic saga directed by Martin Bourboulon, based on Alexandre Dumas's 1844 novel The Three Musketeers. The film stars François Civil, Vincent Cassel, Romain Duris, Pio Marmaï, and Eva Green.
It was released theatrically in France by Pathé Distribution on 5 April 2023. The second part, The Three Musketeers: Milady, was released on 13 December 2023. The films were co-produced by France, Germany, Spain and Belgium on a combined production budget of €72 million (US$78 million), around €36 million for each film, the second most expensive French production of 2023, and filmed back to back for 150 days from 16 August 2021 to 3 June 2022.
The film received generally positive reviews from critics and was a box office hit in France, becoming the third highest-grossing French film of 2023, the fifth highest-grossing French film internationally and the eighth highest-grossing film of 2023 in France, with over 3.4 million tickets sold in the country and over 1.6 million tickets sold outside France. It received six nominations at the 49th César Awards.


== Plot ==
On his way to Paris to join the Musketeers of the Guard, D'Artagnan, a young man from Gascony, is almost killed trying to stop a young noble woman from being kidnapped by a group of armed men. In Paris, D'Artagnan visits Capitaine de Tréville, the commander of the Musketeers at its headquarters. Tréville, who knew D'Artagnan's late father, encourages him to start a military career as a cadet. Through a window, D'Artagnan sees one of the men who tried to kill him days ago and rushes out of the building to confront him. Pursuing the man, he unintentionally offends, on three different occasions, three musketeers, Athos, Porthos and Aramis, who demand satisfaction. D'Artagnan has to schedule a duel with each of them the same day.
As D'Artagnan prepares himself for the first duel, he realizes that Athos' seconds are Porthos and Aramis, who are astonished that the young Gascon intends to duel them all. As D'Artagnan and Athos begin the duel, Cardinal Richelieu's guards appear and attempt to arrest the musketeers and the Gascon for illegal dueling. Although they are vastly outnumbered, the four men win the battle. Proud of his guards' victory over Cardinal's guards, King Louis XIII of France upbraids the musketeers.
D'Artagnan becomes friends with the Three Musketeers and discovers that Porthos is bisexual. He finds lodgings and falls in love at first sight with Constance Bonacieux, a sentiment which she eventually comes to reciprocate. She works for Queen Anne of France, King Louis' wife, who is secretly in love with the English Duke of Buckingham. Cardinal Richelieu plots to demonstrate that she is cheating on her husband, which would lead, according to Richelieu's plan, to her beheading.
The King's military and clerical advisers and his younger brother Gaston, Louis' heir presumptive and political rival, are urging the King to fight Protestant rebels at their stronghold of La Rochelle. Louis, conscious of the history of religious wars under his predecessors, is refusing to authorize a war.
Athos is falsely accused of murdering an unknown young woman who is found naked, with multiple stab wounds, next to him in bed, and is sentenced to death by the King's court. D'Artagnan realizes it was the same young woman he tried to save from being kidnapped on his way to Paris. Seeing a chance to save Athos, the musketeers resolve to find out who she is. D'Artagnan goes to the House of Valcour to talk to a family they believe is connected to the woman. A person he meets there is Milady who pretends to be a member of the Valcour family. When D'Artagnan recognizes that she is an impostor, Milady attempts to kill him, but D'Artagnan eludes her.
Athos is freed on the way to his execution b