Timecop is a 1994 American science fiction action film directed by Peter Hyams and co-written by Mike Richardson and Mark Verheiden. Richardson also served as executive producer. The film is based on Timecop, a story created by Richardson, written by Verheiden, and drawn by Ron Randall, which appeared in the anthology comic Dark Horse Comics, published by Dark Horse Comics.  It is the first installment in the Timecop franchise.
The film stars Jean-Claude Van Damme as Max Walker, a police officer in 1994 and later a U.S. federal agent in 2004, when time travel has been made possible. It also stars Ron Silver as a corrupt politician and Mia Sara as Melissa Walker, the agent's wife. The story follows Walker's life as he fights time-travel crime and investigates the politician's plans.
Timecop remains Van Damme's highest-grossing film as a lead actor (his second to break the $100 million barrier worldwide).  Although met with mixed reviews, it is generally regarded by critics as one of Van Damme's best films.


== Plot ==
In 1863, Gainesville, Georgia, a time traveller with futuristic weapons slaughters five Confederate soldiers and steals their shipment of gold bullion.
In 1994, the Justice Department funds the creation of the clandestine Time Enforcement Commission (TEC) to combat the emerging threat of the past being altered following the invention of time travel technology by Dr. Hans Kleindast. Users are unable to travel to the future as it has not yet happened, but they can travel to and change the past, creating ripples through time that alter the present. Senator Aaron McComb volunteers to oversee the TEC and police officer Eugene Matuzak is assigned as the TEC's initial commissioner. Metropolitan Police Department officer Max Walker is offered a position at the TEC but before he can accept, he and his wife Melissa are attacked by unknown assailants; Walker is left for dead while Melissa is killed when their house explodes.
In 2004, veteran TEC agent Walker travels to 1929 to apprehend his former partner Lyle Atwood who is using future knowledge to profit from the stock market crash. Atwood confesses to working for McComb who is using his position to send subordinates through time to obtain funds for his failing presidential campaign. Fearing McComb will erase him and his family from history as a punishment, Atwood refuses to testify and is executed for his crimes by the TEC. During McComb's visit to the TEC, Walker infers his suspicions of McComb.
After surviving an ambush at his home by McComb's henchmen, Walker is assigned a new partner, Sarah Fielding. Walker and Fielding travel to 1994 to investigate a time disturbance and discover a younger McComb being bought out of a computer chip manufacturing company by his partner Jack Parker. The 2004 McComb arrives to prevent his 1994 self from accepting the deal, advising him the chip will soon be worth billions, and cautioning that they must not touch as the same matter cannot occupy the same space. McComb kills Parker and Fielding betrays and captures Walker, admitting she is in McComb's employ. In the ensuing shootout, McComb shoots Fielding and escapes to 2004.
Walker returns to a heavily altered future where McComb is a wealthy presidential frontrunner and has shut down the TEC to prevent further interference in his plans. Walker convinces Matuzak, who is oblivious to McComb's changes, that he and Walker were close friends. They deduce that McComb is using Kleindast's original time travel prototype and Matuzak helps send Walker back in time to restore history before being shot dead by McComb's guards. McComb concludes that Walker must be erased at a point before he ever joined the TEC to eliminate his interference.
Back in 1994, Walker finds Fielding recovering in a hospital. She agrees to testify against McComb but while Walker is erasing evidence of her treatment she is murdered; Walker discovers Melissa had been for treatment because she was pregnant. Realizing this i