Tin Cup is a 1996 American romantic comedy and sports film co-written and directed by Ron Shelton, and starring Kevin Costner and Rene Russo with Cheech Marin and Don Johnson in major supporting roles. The film received generally positive reviews from critics and performed moderately at the box office, grossing $75.8 million against its $45 million budget. Costner received a nomination for the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Motion Picture Musical or Comedy.


== Plot ==
Roy "Tin Cup" McAvoy is a former golf prodigy leading a generally aimless existence. He lost his chance to become a professional golfer when he attempted a riskier shot for the final round of the PGA Tour Qualifying Tournament rather than taking a safer shot. He owns a ramshackle driving range in West Texas, where he drinks and hangs out with his pal Romeo Posar and their friends.
One day Dr. Molly Griswold, a clinical psychologist, arrives looking for a golf lesson. She has been dating David Simms, a top professional golfer who played with Roy at the University of Houston. Roy is immediately attracted to Molly.
The next day, Simms shows up at Roy's trailer ahead of a local benefit tournament. Roy thinks he is being invited to play, but he actually wants to hire him as a caddie (since Roy knows the course). During the round, Roy needles Simms about laying up instead of having the nerve to take a 230-yard shot over a water hazard. A bet among the other players is made and Simms fires him after he makes the long shot.
To get even with Simms and prove his worth to Molly, Roy decides to try to qualify for the U.S. Open. He makes a play for Molly. She turns him down but offers to be his sports psychologist in exchange for more golf lessons.
In the first qualifying round, with Romeo as his caddie, Roy's game is excellent, but his head needs help. Roy insists on playing recklessly and he demands the driver instead of the safe play which is laying up. They fight and Romeo quits. Amazingly, despite breaking most of his clubs in a tantrum, Roy still manages to advance to the final qualifying round. Without Romeo, he barely succeeds at the sectional qualifying round, earning a spot in the U.S. Open. Romeo returns and helps Roy with some swing problems.
On the first day of the U.S. Open, Roy, playing hungover, shoots a horrendous 83. Meanwhile, Molly sees Simms' unpleasant side and decides she truly wants to be with Roy. With renewed confidence, McAvoy shocks the golf world by making the cut with a U.S. Open round record at 10 under par. Roy's third round is also excellent and moves him into contention.
On the last day of the tournament, Roy is in a three-way battle to win. For the fourth day in a row, Roy takes a shot that repeatedly fails to keep the ball out of the water hazard. On his twelfth and final shot, facing disqualification, he reaches the green and amazingly gets the ball into the hole. Roy realizes that he has blown a shot at winning the U.S. Open, but Molly reassures him that, more importantly, people will always remember his amazing shot.
Back in Texas, Molly tells Roy that he automatically qualified for next year's Open due to his standing. They kiss passionately as the movie ends.


== Cast ==
Kevin Costner as Roy "Tin Cup" McAvoy
Rene Russo as Dr. Molly Griswold
Don Johnson as David Simms
Cheech Marin as Romeo Posar
Rex Linn as Dewey
Linda Hart as Doreen
Dennis Burkley as Earl
Lou Myers as Clint
Richard Lineback as Curt
George Perez as Jose
Mickey Jones as Turk
Michael Milhoan as Boone
Jim Nantz as CBS announcer
Ken Venturi as CBS announcer
Chef Herbert Jaeger as bar patron
A. Wade Magruder as exasperated spectator


== Production ==
Tin Cup was based on a story by Ron Shelton and Tim Norville inspired by the vulgar expression, "He's (She's) not worth a fart in a tin cup." It was scripted by Norville and received a rewrite from Shelton. Costner joined the project in June 1995, having previously worked with Shelton on Bull Durham. Filming was due to 