Toast of London is a British television sitcom. It was created by Arthur Mathews and Matt Berry and stars Berry as Steven Toast, an eccentric, middle-aged actor with a chequered past who spends more time dealing with his problems offstage than performing on it.
Its fourth series, set in the United States, was titled Toast of Tinseltown.


== Production ==
All episodes are directed by Michael Cumming.
Three series, under the title Toast of London, were broadcast on Channel 4. Series 2 and 3 were shot at the West London Film Studios. In the United States, Toast of London was available on IFC.
In November 2017, after reports of a fourth series, Berry clarified that it will return "in some form at some point", but nothing was currently being written. Mathews later said that they had an idea for "Toast in America", but that no deadline was set. In December 2017, Channel 4 officially renewed the show for another series.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, a YouTube channel with new audio skits of Toast of London was created, whilst in 2021 the "Toast in America" series was confirmed as a six-part television project for the BBC, under the title Toast of Tinseltown. The series debuted on BBC Two on 4 January 2022 with all episodes of Toast of Tinseltown uploaded to the BBC iPlayer at the same time, alongside the three series of Toast of London.


== Cast and characters ==


=== Overview ===


=== Main ===
Matt Berry as Steven Gonville Toast, the central character of the series. A bumbling, single, self-important actor who unsuccessfully attempts to become a ladies' man and often the bearer of bad fortune. Toast considers himself a success despite his obviously failing career.
Berry also portrays a younger version of Steven's father, Colonel Gonville Toast, in the series 3 episode "Beauty Calls".
Doon Mackichan as Jane Plough (which she pronounces "pluff" ) like "Clough", Toast's unhelpful agent. Prim and posh, she sees herself as superior to Toast, despite her failure to provide him with decent work. She was played by Fiona Mollison in the pilot.
Mackichan also plays Brooke Hooberman, Toast's US agent in Toast of Tinseltown.
Robert Bathurst as Ed Howzer-Black, Toast's landlord and an idle retired actor.
Bathurst also portrays Ed's father, Rupert Howzer-Black, in the series 3 episode "Beauty Calls".
Harry Peacock as Ray "Bloody" Purchase, Toast's fellow actor and rival, and a virulent homophobe. The two hate each other with a vengeance and are constantly in competition. While Purchase often seems to have the upper hand, Toast is still sometimes able to come out on top.
Peacock also portrays Ray's albino twin brother, Bill Purchase, in the series 3 episode "Man of Sex".
Tim Downie as Danny Bear, a studio sound engineer and stereotypical hipster who regularly hires Toast for voiceover work in a London studio.
Shazad Latif as Clem Fandango, another hipster who is doing work experience in the recording studio. Clem routinely says to Toast, "Hello, Steven? This is Clem Fandango. Can you hear me?" to which Toast is forced to reply with some variation of "Yes. I can hear you, Clem Fandango."
Tracy-Ann Oberman as Mrs. Purchase, the wife of Ray Purchase and a prostitute who is enjoying an affair with Toast. Despite being a prostitute, the only person she ever charges for sex is her husband.
In Toast of Tinseltown, additional main characters include:

Fred Armisen as Russ Nightlife/D. B. Cooper, Toast's eccentric and reclusive roommate in Los Angeles.
Rashida Jones as Billy/Milly Tarzana, Nightlife's housekeeper.


=== Recurring ===
Adrian Lukis as Colonel Blair Toast, Steven's eccentric older brother. An army veteran, he lost his hand in the Falklands War and now uses a stuffed rubber glove as a replacement.
Amanda Donohoe as Ellen, Toast's abusive and volatile ex-wife. Despite her poor treatment of him, Toast continues to have feelings for her.
Alan Ford as Alan, who is a hypnotist and a homeopath. Ford also appears as a taxi driver called "Mick Car