To Gillian on Her 37th Birthday is a 1996 American romantic fantasy drama film directed by Michael Pressman and adapted by David E. Kelley from the play of the same name by Michael Brady. It stars Peter Gallagher, Michelle Pfeiffer and Claire Danes. The original score was composed by James Horner.
The father and daughter, David and Rachel, are struggling to come to terms with the tragic death of wife and mother, Gillian when they invite her sister and her husband to commiserate the two year anniversary of the dark day.
The film adapted from a play was released in the US on October 25, 1996, and was overall panned by critics.


== Plot ==
Affected by the death of his wife Gillian (who fell from the mast of their yacht on a family outing on their sailboat on her birthday), David Lewis turns their summer cottage in Nantucket, Massachusetts into a permanent home. He spends most of his time on the beach there, communicating with Gillian's spirit and unwittingly neglecting their daughter Rachel.
On the second anniversary of Gillian's death, David invites her sister Esther Wheeler and her husband Paul to stay for the weekend. She insists on bringing her female friend named Kevin Dollof, whom she hopes David will become romantically interested in. He, however, ignores her and proceeds with the ritualistic celebration of Gillian's birthday.
At the beach house, Paul tries to discourage Esther from meddling in David's affairs. Rachel's friend Cindy tries to encourage her to be more bold with guys.
David goes for a run while Paul tries to confront him about his hermit-like behavior. Rachel talks to Esther about her father's ritual along the beach, spending hours there every day.
As part of the special weekend ritual, they have a formal fancy dinner in the house. There Esther accuses David of holing himself in, neglecting Rachel and his literature professor background. He insists he has taken a sabbatical to write a book, then stomps off to walk on the beach.
There, David talks with Gillian. He talks about everyone's arrival and the pressure they are putting on him to move on. Gillian reminds him that Rachel must always come first. Once she has disappeared again, David comes face-to-face with Rachel and admits both that he talks to her imagined ghost and that he is not really writing a book.
When Rachel comes in, her aunt Esther presses her, but she says there is nothing to worry about. That night, sensing her sleeplessness, Paul discovers Esther has a court appointment on Monday to petition David lose custody for neglect, as Rachel is increasingly withdrawn and her grades have been slipping.
The next day David throws himself into the sand sculpture contest he has been preparing for weeks, determined to beat the child who won the previous year. Cindy has encouraged Rachel to wear a provocative bikini and strut down the beach. They attract most males' on the beach, including Paul. When David sees his daughter being ogled, he hurries to cover Rachel up.
David later calls out to a woman, probably due to heat stroke. Having mistaken her for Gillian, he then collapses. After waking up, David discovers he has won the competition. Rachel is concerned, wishing he would move on.
Paul lets David know about his wife's court date on Monday to try to convince him to better hide his heartache over Gillian, so he races back to confront her. David tells her to get out, then Esther points out that she had thwarted his suicide attempt back in the day.
Rachel goes to a party with Joey, a guy she met on the beach. David goes to the coast to talk with Gillian. Esther sends Kevin to talk to him, and she suggests he is idolizing his dead wife rather than recognising her flaws.
As Rachel never consumed alcohol, Joey brings her back drunk after having only two drinks. She goes to bed to sleep it off. Rachel dreams that Gillian takes her night cycling, but wakes up screaming as a tractor-trailer almost hits her in the nightmare. She tells her dad she can no longer 