Total Recall is a 2012 American science fiction action film directed by Len Wiseman from a screenplay by Kurt Wimmer and Mark Bomback, based on a story conceived by Wimmer, Ronald Shusett, Dan O'Bannon, and Jon Povill. It stars Colin Farrell, Kate Beckinsale and Jessica Biel. The film serves as a remake of the 1990 film of the same name, which is inspired by the 1966 short story "We Can Remember It for You Wholesale" by Philip K. Dick. The supporting cast features Bryan Cranston, Bokeem Woodbine, John Cho, and Bill Nighy. Unlike the original film, the setting is on a dystopian Earth, not Mars.
The film was first announced in 2009. Produced by Columbia Pictures in association with producers Neal H. Moritz and Toby Jaffe's Original Film, Total Recall was released in North America on August 3, 2012, to mixed-to-negative reviews, and grossed over $211.8 million worldwide and was considered a box office bomb. It is often ranked among the worst movie remakes ever made.


== Plot ==
At the end of the 21st century, chemical warfare has devastated the Earth. The only habitable land left consists of two territories: the United Federation of Britain (UFB), located on the British Isles and northwestern Europe, and the Colony, spanning all of Australia. Factory workers from the Colony commute to the UFB each day via "The Fall", a gravity elevator running through the Earth's core. The disparity in living conditions has resulted in a group of people called the Resistance, deemed terrorists by the UFB, who seek to improve living conditions in the Colony.
Colony worker Douglas Quaid has been having unsettling dreams of being a secret agent partnered with an unnamed woman. Tired of his factory job building police robots with his friend Harry, he visits Rekall, a company that implants artificial memories. He decides on the fantasy of being a secret agent. During exploratory preparations by technician McClane, they discover that Quaid already has real memories of being a spy. As McClane starts to question Quaid about the memories, a squad of UFB police arrive, killing the Rekall staff in an attempt to arrest Quaid and cover up the incident. Strange instincts kick in as Quaid defends himself, killing the entire squad and escaping. Upon returning home, Quaid relays the incident to his wife Lori, who attempts to kill him, revealing that she is a UFB intelligence agent, and they have only been married for six weeks, not seven years as he believed. After Quaid escapes, he receives a phone call from Charles Hammond, a former colleague of his who directs him to a safe-deposit box. Inside it, Quaid finds a message from himself with the address of a UFB apartment.
Upon arriving at the UFB, Quaid is pursued by Lori and her team, but is rescued by Melina, the woman from his dreams but she is injured, and Quaid is forced to retreat to his apartment to recuperate. Quaid finds another hidden recording, revealing his true identity as rogue UFB agent Carl Hauser, who was working for UFB Chancellor Cohaagen to infiltrate the Resistance before Hauser defected upon falling in love and realizing he was on the wrong side. He had discovered a kill code that can disable an army of robots that Cohaagen intends to use to destroy the Colony and give the UFB more living space but was captured by UFB agents and implanted with false memories to manipulate him. Nonetheless, Matthias, the Resistance leader, should be able to retrieve the memory of the kill code. Subsequently, Melina reveals she was Hauser's lover before he was captured, comparing their matching scars from when they were shot while holding hands in Quaid's "dream". They are soon surrounded by the police and Harry, who claims that Quaid is still in a Rekall-induced dream and killing Melina is the only way out. A confused Quaid is initially uncertain until he sees a tear on Melina's cheek and shoots Harry. Lori pursues the pair, but they manage to escape.
Melina takes Quaid to see Matthias, whom he asks for help 