Characters from Disney/Pixar's Toy Story franchise which consists of the animated feature films Toy Story (1995), Toy Story 2 (1999), Toy Story 3 (2010) and Toy Story 4 (2019), and Lightyear (2022). This list also includes characters from the Toy Story Toons series (2011–2012) and the television specials Toy Story of Terror! (2013) and Toy Story That Time Forgot (2014) include:


== Introduced in Toy Story (1995) ==


=== Andy's main toys ===
Andy Davis owns various toys who would also appear in later films. In Toy Story 3, many of Andy's toys have been sold or passed on to new owners, and his remaining toys are ultimately donated to Bonnie.

Woody Pride (voiced by Tom Hanks in the films, shorts, and specials and Jim Hanks in the video games, Buzz Lightyear of Star Command: The Adventure Begins, and Lamp Life) is a 1950s traditional pullstring cowboy doll, and Andy's favorite toy. He usually acts as the leader of Andy's toy group. He is extremely proud of his hat; for example, in Toy Story 3, he is alarmed when he discovers that he has lost his hat. His rivalry with Buzz forms the basis of the first film's plot. In Toy Story 2, he is stolen at a yard sale by a toy collector named Al, causing the other toys to embark on a rescue mission. In the film, it is stated that he was the star of a fictional 1950s puppet television series titled Woody's Roundup. In Toy Story 3, he and the other toys are donated to a daycare center and must race to get home before Andy leaves for college; he later gets himself and the other toys passed on to Bonnie. In Toy Story 4, he joins Bo Peep in traveling with his new family and Forky. They also helped lost toys find owners and save Forky from running away.
Buzz Lightyear (voiced by Tim Allen in the films, shorts, and specials, Pat Fraley in the video games, Patrick Warburton in Buzz Lightyear of Star Command, Chris Evans in Lightyear and Javier Fernández-Peña in Spanish mode) is a modern-day "Space Ranger" action figure. In the films, he acts as Woody's second-in-command. In Toy Story, he begins the series believing he is a real Space Ranger (the other toys are aware that they are toys) and develops a rivalry with Woody, who resents him for getting more attention as the newcomer. His catchphrase is "To infinity and beyond!" During the film, he comes to realize that he is just a toy, and eventually becomes good friends with Woody. He is extremely loyal to his friends. In Toy Story 2, Buzz with Mr. Potato Head, Hamm, Rex, and Slinky goes to save Woody from Al, where he gets stuck in the Buzz Lightyear aisle in Al's Toy Barn by another Buzz and finds out for himself what he was really like. In Toy Story 3, a relationship begins to develop between Buzz and Jessie. He is particularly open with his affection when switched to "Spanish mode". Andy regards Woody and Buzz as his two favorite toys, in the third film, he considers which one he will take to college, and ultimately chooses Woody. When passing on his toys to Bonnie, he describes Buzz as "the coolest toy ever". A 65-episode television series, Buzz Lightyear of Star Command, aired from 2000 to 2001, featuring Buzz as a real Space Ranger. The 2022 Pixar film, Lightyear, depicts the origin story of the character, which, in the narrative of Toy Story, inspired the line of Buzz Lightyear toys shown. In Lightyear, Buzz is shown to be a Space Ranger in Star Command, who is drawn into a conflict with Emperor Zurg after he experiences the effects of time dilation while testing faster-than-light travel methods.
Bo Peep (voiced by Annie Potts) is a porcelain figurine who serves as Woody's romantic interest. Bo Peep, inspired by the nursery rhyme "Little Bo-Peep", is a sweet-natured shepherdess accompanied by a single figure meant to resemble three sheep named Billy, Goat and Gruff. In the first film, she and her sheep are detachable components of Molly's bedside lamp. In Andy's games of imaginative play, Bo Peep is used as the damsel-in-distress of the stori