Toy Story 2 is a 1999 American animated adventure comedy film produced by Pixar Animation Studios for Walt Disney Pictures. The second installment in the Toy Story franchise and the sequel to Toy Story (1995), it was directed by John Lasseter, co-directed by Ash Brannon and Lee Unkrich (in their feature directorial debuts), and produced by Helene Plotkin and Karen Robert Jackson, from a screenplay written by Andrew Stanton, Rita Hsiao, Doug Chamberlin, and Chris Webb, and a story conceived by Lasseter, Stanton, Brannon, and Pete Docter. In the film, Woody is stolen by a toy collector, prompting Buzz Lightyear and his friends to rescue him, but Woody is then tempted by the idea of immortality in a museum. Tom Hanks, Tim Allen, Don Rickles, Jim Varney, Wallace Shawn, John Ratzenberger, Annie Potts, R. Lee Ermey, John Morris, and Laurie Metcalf reprise their roles from the first film and they are joined by Joan Cusack, Kelsey Grammer, Estelle Harris, Wayne Knight, and Jodi Benson, who play the new characters introduced in this film.
Disney initially envisioned Toy Story 2 as a direct-to-video sequel. The film began production in a building separated from Pixar, on a small scale, as most of the main Pixar staff were busy working on A Bug's Life (1998). When story reels proved promising, Disney upgraded the film to a theatrical release, but Pixar was unhappy with the film's quality. Lasseter and the story team redeveloped the entire plot in one weekend. Although most Pixar features take years to develop, the established release date could not be moved and the production schedule for Toy Story 2 was compressed into nine months.
Despite production struggles, Toy Story 2 opened on November 24, 1999, to a successful box office, eventually grossing over $487 million and received widespread critical acclaim from critics and audiences, with a 100% rating on the website Rotten Tomatoes, like its predecessor. It is considered by critics to be one of the few sequel films superior to the original and is frequently featured on lists of the greatest animated films ever made. Toy Story 2 would go on to become the third-highest-grossing film of 1999, behind Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace and The Sixth Sense. Among its accolades, the film won Best Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy at the 57th Golden Globe Awards. The film has seen multiple home media releases and a theatrical 3-D re-release in 2009 as part of a double feature with the first film, 10 years after its initial release. Another sequel, Toy Story 3, was released in 2010.


== Plot ==
Woody and Buzz Lightyear have become the co-leaders of Andy's toys. Andy plans to take Woody to Cowboy Camp but accidentally rips his arm. Andy's mother places Woody on a high shelf, and Woody begins to fear that Andy will throw him away. The day after Andy leaves, Woody finds Wheezy, a penguin toy with a broken squeaker who has also been shelved. When Andy's mother attempts to sell Wheezy at a yard sale, Woody rescues him but is found outside and stolen by a greedy toy collector, Al McWhiggin, the owner of Al's Toy Barn store. Buzz fails to stop the theft but finds clues to identify the collector. Buzz, Mr. Potato Head, Slinky Dog, Rex, and Hamm set out to rescue Woody.
At Al's apartment, Woody discovers that he was designed after the protagonist of Woody's Roundup, a children's Western cartoon from the 1950s, and meets his co-star character dolls - Jessie the Cowgirl, Bullseye the Horse, and Stinky Pete the Prospector. While initially delighted to meet them, Woody realizes that Al plans to sell them to a toy museum in Japan and wants to return home to Andy, much to the gang's dismay, as the museum will not take the collection without Woody. After a toy cleaner repairs Woody's arm, Woody learns that Jessie was abandoned by her owner, Emily, as she grew up. Afraid that Andy might do the same to him, Woody decides to go to the museum.
Meanwhile, Buzz's group reaches Al's Toy Barn and searches for