A sex toy is an object or device that is primarily used to facilitate sexual pleasure, such as a dildo, artificial vagina or vibrator.  Many popular sex toys are designed to resemble human genitals, and may be vibrating or non-vibrating. The term sex toy can also include BDSM apparatus and sex furniture such as sex swings; however, it is not applied to items such as birth control, pornography, or condoms. Alternative terms for sex toy include adult toy and the dated euphemism marital aid. Marital aid also has a broader meaning and is applied to drugs and herbs marketed to enhance or prolong sex.
Sex toys are most commonly sold at sex shops or online, but they may also be sold in a pharmacy or chemist store, a pornographic store, a head shop, or a department store. Sex toys are available in almost all countries for males and females.


== Types ==


=== Erotic electrostimulation ===

Another form of sex toys for both men and women are those for erotic electrostimulation. Erotic electrostimulation refers to the act of using electricity for sexual stimulation. By the mid-1970s, medical transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) machines were widely available. The machines work by stimulating nerve endings with electricity, sending signals of stimulation to the brain. Electrostimulation works off this same principle, when the brain received a signal of stimulation from the genitals, pleasure hormones are released.


=== Erotic furniture ===

Erotic furniture is furniture specially shaped for comfort, penetration levels, and stimulation. Also known as sex furniture, it is any form of furniture that can act as an aid to sexual activity. While almost anything can be used for this purpose, the most common form of furniture employed for sexual activity is the bed, but couches and sofas come a close second. These are not strictly erotic furniture, as their primary use is not erotic.

Specifically designed furniture for erotic purposes can include:

Devices for spanking and flagellation such as the Berkley Horse
Devices for using gravity to aid in lovemaking without the use of complicated slings
Fisting slings
Sex gliders
Sex swings
Various types of angled foam wedges or specially designed pillows that support various sex positions, e.g., Liberator Shapes or the ergonomically based Lovebumpers


=== General penetrative toys ===

Ben Wa balls are hollow metal balls inserted vaginally which can be worn inside the vagina for extended periods of time. The internal rolling is claimed to enhance orgasms.
A dildo is a non-vibrating device which is used for sexual stimulation of the vagina or anus. Dildos are generally made of silicone rubber, but can be made of other materials such as body safe metals such as titanium, stainless steel, aluminum, or glass. They are often made to resemble a penis, although some are C-shaped or S-shaped for G-spot or P-spot stimulation.
A double penetration dildo is a long, usually flexible dildo with both ends designed for penetration. It allows for mutual penetration between two persons (or for double penetration of  a single female, both anally and vaginally).
A strap-on dildo is a dildo worn in a harness, used to penetrate another person.
A horseshoe is a non-vibrating sex toy, shaped similar to a horseshoe, which is put into the vagina and anus at the same time. It is made with softer plastics.
Kegel exerciser, also known as vaginal barbells, eggs, or jugglers, are designed to improve muscle tone in the pelvic floor, and can be used for sexual pleasure as well as enhancing vaginal response.
A sex machine is a motor-driven device that combines penetration with rotational or reciprocal movement, or both.


==== Anal toys ====

Anal beads
Butt plugs are often shorter dildos intended for anal insertion.  They tend to have a flared base to prevent the device from becoming sucked into the rectum.
Prostate massagers are devices designed to stimulate a prostate for health and pleasure.


==== Glass sex toys =