Trainspotting is a 1996 Scottish black comedy-drama film directed by Danny Boyle and starring Ewan McGregor, Ewen Bremner, Jonny Lee Miller, Kevin McKidd, Robert Carlyle, and Kelly Macdonald in her film debut. Based on the 1993 novel of the same title by Irvine Welsh, the film was released in the United Kingdom on 23 February 1996.
The film follows a group of heroin addicts in an economically depressed area of Edinburgh and their passage through life. Beyond drug addiction, other themes in the film include an exploration of the urban poverty and squalor in Edinburgh.
Trainspotting was released to critical acclaim, and is regarded by many critics as one of the best films of the 1990s. The film was ranked tenth by the British Film Institute (BFI) in its list of Top 100 British films of the 20th century. In 2004, the film was voted the best Scottish film of all time in a general public poll. A 2017 poll, which consisted of 150 actors, directors, writers, producers and critics for Time Out magazine, ranked it the tenth best British film ever. A sequel, T2 Trainspotting, was released in January 2017.


== Plot ==
Mark Renton, a 26-year-old unemployed heroin addict, lives with his parents in the Edinburgh ward of Leith and regularly takes drugs with his "friends": treacherous, womanising James Bond fanatic Simon "Sick Boy" Williamson; docile and bumbling Daniel "Spud" Murphy; and Swanney—"Mother Superior"—their dealer. Renton's other friends, aggressive, alcoholic psychopath Francis "Franco" Begbie and honest footballer and recreational speed user Tommy Mackenzie, who both abstain from heroin, warn him about his dangerous drug habit. Growing tired of his reckless lifestyle, Renton attempts to wean himself off heroin with a bare room, foodstuffs, and opium suppositories from ill-reputed dealer Mikey Forrester. He develops diarrhoea and has to relieve himself in the disgusting toilet of a betting shop, then imagines himself swimming in the filthy water as he retrieves the suppositories.
Renton attempts to lead a "useful and fulfilling" life away from heroin. This consists of him meeting Sick Boy in a park where he shoots a stranger's dog with an air gun, supplying Spud with amphetamine for a job interview that turns disastrous, and stealing a sex tape of Tommy and his girlfriend, Lizzy. At The Volcano nightclub, Renton notices that his cessation of heroin use has increased his libido. He seduces a girl named Diane Coulston, and they return to her apartment to have sex. The following morning, Renton is horrified to learn that she is below the age of consent and lives with her parents, whom Renton initially assumes are her flatmates. Diane threatens Renton with blackmail to report him to the police for statutory rape if he does not continue the relationship.
After several unsuccessful attempts to reintegrate into society, Renton, Sick Boy, and Spud relapse into heroin use; Tommy also begins to dabble in drug use after becoming depressed due to being dumped by Lizzy, thanks to the actions of an unknowing Renton. Despite the group’s shock, grief, and horror regarding the negligence-induced death of Dawn, the infant daughter of Sick Boy and his girlfriend Allison, the group still does not recover from their heroin use. Later, Renton, Sick Boy, and Spud are caught shoplifting; Renton and Spud are arrested while Sick Boy narrowly escapes. Spud receives a six-month custodial sentence at HMP Saughton, and Renton narrowly avoids jail by entering a drug rehabilitation programme where he is given methadone to help him. However, Renton quickly relapses and nearly dies of a heroin overdose at Swanney's home. Upon returning home after his revival at the hospital, Renton's parents lock him in his childhood bedroom and force him to go cold turkey. Following a horrific withdrawal punctuated by hallucinations of his friends and visions of Dawn crawling on the ceiling, Renton is released upon the condition of an HIV/AIDS test. Despite years of sharing sy