True Lies is a 1994 American action comedy film written and directed by James Cameron, based on the 1991 French comedy film La Totale! The film stars Arnold Schwarzenegger as Harry Tasker, a U.S. government agent, who struggles to balance his double life as a spy with his familial duties. Jamie Lee Curtis, Tom Arnold, Bill Paxton, Art Malik, and Tia Carrere star in supporting roles. True Lies was the first Lightstorm Entertainment project to be distributed under Cameron's multimillion-dollar production deal with 20th Century Fox, as well as the first major production for the visual effects company Digital Domain, which was co-founded by Cameron. It was also the first film to cost $100 million.
True Lies received mostly positive reviews from critics, and ultimately grossed $378 million worldwide at the box office, becoming the third-highest-grossing film of 1994. For her performance, Curtis won the Golden Globe Award for Best Actress – Motion Picture Musical or Comedy and the Saturn Award for Best Actress, while Cameron won the Saturn Award for Best Director. It was also nominated at the Academy Awards and BAFTAs in the Best Visual Effects category, and also for seven Saturn Awards.


== Plot ==
To his wife, Helen and his daughter Dana, Harry Tasker is a salesman for business software often away on business trips, but in actuality, he is a secret agent for Omega Sector, a top-secret U.S. counterterrorism agency. Harry, along with his teammates Albert "Gib" Gibson and Faisil, infiltrates a party in Switzerland hosted by billionaire Jamal Khaled. At the party, Harry meets Juno Skinner, who turns out to not only be Khaled's art dealer, but someone paid by "Crimson Jihad", a terrorist faction led by Salim Abu Aziz. Undercover as a potential buyer, Harry visits her, leading the terrorists to attempt to kill him. Harry fights them off but loses Aziz in pursuit. As a result, Harry misses the birthday party that Helen and Dana had planned for him.
The next day, Harry goes to Helen's office to smooth matters over, but overhears her making secret arrangements to meet someone called Simon. Suspecting Helen is having an affair, Harry uses Omega Sector resources to learn that Simon is a used car salesman, who pretends to be a covert agent to seduce women. In disguise, Harry and other Omega agents arrest Helen and Simon. After terrifying Simon into keeping away from Helen, Harry and Gib interrogate her using a voice masking device in an unknown location in a federal facility. They learn she is suffering a midlife crisis and is desperately seeking adventure. Harry thus arranges for Helen to participate in a staged spy mission, where she is to seduce a mysterious figure, who is actually Harry, and plant a bug in his hotel room. 
However, Aziz's men burst in, kidnap the couple and take them to an island in the Florida Keys. On the island, Harry learns Crimson Jihad paid Juno to help the group smuggle four MIRV nuclear warheads by hiding them in antique statues. Aziz demands that the U.S. remove their forces from the Persian Gulf or he will weekly detonate a warhead in a major U.S. city. He will also detonate one warhead on the uninhabited island to demonstrate Crimson Jihad's nuclear power. Before being tortured with Helen, Harry is administered a truth serum and confesses his double life to her. They escape and learn that one warhead is set to explode in 90 minutes while the others are loaded onto vehicles to be taken into the U.S. via the Overseas Highway, thus bypassing U.S. Customs. In the ensuing melee, Harry and Helen kill most of the terrorists, while Aziz gets away with one of the warheads on a helicopter.
Helen is caught by Juno and taken in a limousine following the convoy. Gib and other Omega agents pick up Harry. They use two Marine jets to intercept the convoy by destroying part of the Seven Mile Bridge. Harry rescues Helen from the limo before it falls off the highway, killing Juno. The warhead left on the island detonates without