Power Rangers Turbo is a television series and the fifth season of the Power Rangers franchise that aired in 1997. The show was prefaced with the franchise's second film, Turbo: A Power Rangers Movie. 
As with its predecessors, Power Rangers Turbo is based on one of the entries of the Super Sentai series; in Turbo's case, the source is the 20th series, Gekisou Sentai Carranger. The series introduced a child actor as the new Blue Ranger, and featured the departure of the long-running characters Zordon and Alpha 5, as well the veteran team of Rangers and introduced four new characters to take the place of the veteran Rangers. The fifth season also marked the final regular appearances of Johnny Yong Bosch, Catherine Sutherland, and Steve Cardenas, and also the last appearance of Nakia Burrise.


== Plot ==
After Maligore's defeat, the Turbo Power Rangers, Tommy Oliver, Adam Park, Tanya Sloan and Katherine Hillard graduate from high school, while the new 12-year-old Blue Ranger, Justin Stewart, skips ahead a couple of grades and gets to go to Angel Grove High. Seeking revenge, Divatox begins to attack the Rangers. At the beginning of the season, the Rangers’ longtime mentors, Zordon and Alpha 5 depart to return to Zordon's home planet of Eltar, making way for the spectral Dimitria of Inquiris and Alpha 6. Other changes are also seen as Ernie leaves Angel Grove to do volunteer work in South America and Lt. Stone takes over the Juice Bar. Also an ally, the Blue Senturion arrives from the year 2000, with a message for Dimitria and the Rangers that Lord Zedd, Rita Repulsa, The Machine Empire and Divatox will team up to destroy the universe, but fails to show the complete message due to Divatox corrupting the end of it.
Later, Tommy, Adam, Tanya and Katherine Hillard, who are leaving for new chapters of their lives, are asked to pass on their powers to a new group of people. They choose T.J. Johnson, Carlos Vallerte, Ashley Hammond and Cassie Chan as the new Red, Green, Yellow and Pink Rangers respectively with Justin still being the Blue Ranger.  The new team of Rangers are also joined by another ally, the Phantom Ranger, a mysterious being from another world. The team eventually learns that Dark Specter has captured Zordon, though Zordon is able to warn the Rangers not to rescue him as it would leave Earth defenseless. A short while later, the Rangers lose both the Turbo and Rescue Megazords in a battle with Divatox's most powerful monster yet, Goldgoyle. As Dimitria and the Blue Senturion leave for Eltar to help Zordon, Divatox finds the Power Chamber's location. Her army of grunts and monsters infiltrate the Chamber, defeating the team and destroying the Power Chamber. However, before Divatox tries to finish off the Rangers, she receives a message that Zordon has been captured and under the order of Dark Specter leaves for the Cimmerian planet. The powerless Rangers then leave Earth and head for space to save Zordon, with Justin choosing to stay behind with his father. These events lead to the next incarnation of the franchise, Power Rangers in Space.


== Cast and characters ==


=== Turbo Rangers ===
Original team

Jason David Frank as Tommy Oliver  The First Red Turbo Ranger and leader; previously the Mighty Morphin Green Ranger, the Mighty Morphin White Ranger, and the Red Zeo Ranger. He is Katherine Hillard's love interest. He piloted the Red Lightning Turbozord and his primary weapon was the Turbo Lightning Sword.
Blake Foster as Justin Stewart The Original Blue Turbo Ranger; when Rocky DeSantos injured himself due to training practice, Justin was chosen by Zordon to be his replacement. Justin, however, was 12 years old and the shorter than the other members. So, to compensate for his youth, he was able to morph into an adult-sized form as the Blue Ranger. Justin is the only common member between the first and second team of Turbo Rangers. He piloted the Mountain Blaster Turbozord and the Siren Blaster Rescuezord. His primary