Twin Dragons is a 1992 Hong Kong action comedy film directed by Ringo Lam and Tsui Hark, and starring Jackie Chan in a double role as identical twin brothers separated at birth.
The film also goes by titles such as Brother vs. Brother, Duel of Dragons, When Dragons Collide and Double Dragons.


== Plot ==
In 1965, a Hong Kong couple are doting on their newborn identical twin boys. Meanwhile, a dangerous gang leader named Crazy Kung is being transported as a captive in the same hospital. Crazy Kung escapes and attempts to take one of the twins hostage, and in the ensuing chaos the twins are permanently separated. One of the twins, named Ma Yau, is taken to America by his parents and grows up to be a concert pianist and conductor. The other twin, Ma Wan, is found and raised by an alcoholic woman named Tsui, and becomes a street racer and martial artist named Bok Min. For years, neither of them is aware that he has an identical twin brother.
26 years later, the twins' lives intersect again: Bok Min and his best friend Tarzan get mixed up with a dangerous gang, while Ma Yau prepares to conduct a major concert in Hong Kong. In addition, the twins gain romantic interests: Bok Min meets Barbara, a club singer Tarzan is interested in, and Yau becomes acquainted with Tong Sum, a young woman from a respectable family who has a secret passion for fighter types. Eventually, the twins meet and discover that they share a strange connection with each other. As a result, a string of comedic mix-ups ensues when Ma Yau is accidentally enlisted by the gangsters to participate as an escape driver in the liberation of none other than Crazy Kung; Bok Min in turn is forced to conduct Yau's concert (which becomes a smash hit despite him having absolutely no musical talent); and the two of them end up with the other's girl as their respective love interest.
Eventually, things come to a head when the gangsters kidnap Tarzan to make Ma Yau surrender a briefcase meant for Crazy Kung, which Ma Yau had accidentally nabbed. The twins join up to defeat the gang that has turned their lives upside down, and in a showdown in a vehicle testing center Crazy Kung dies in a runaway crash test car. The film ends with the impending double wedding of the twins to their girls and Bok Min's introduction to his real parents, but when Bok Min gets cold feet and Ma Yau goes looking for him, a final gag falls into place when the wedding guests catch the two twins together and are unable to tell them apart.


== Cast ==
Jackie Chan as Ma Yau / Bok Min (John Ma / Boomer in the American release)
Maggie Cheung as Barbara
Nina Li Chi as Tong Sum (Tammy in the American release)
Teddy Robin as Tarzan (Tyson in the American release)
Anthony Chan as hotel staffer
Philip Chan as hotel manager Chen
Sylvia Chang as the twins' mother
James Wong as the twins' father
Alfred Cheung as Boss Wing
Jacob Cheung as cafe cashier
Cheung Tung-jo as orchestra member
John Keung as hotel security officer
Chor Yuen as Uncle Tang (Tammy's father)
Lau Kar-leung as doctor
Kirk Wong as Crazy Kung
Wong Lung-wai as Wai
Lai Ying-chow as Tsao
Jamie Luk as Rocky
John Woo as priest
Tsui Siu-ming as priest
Eric Tsang as man talking on the phone (Man on Phone in the American release)
David Wu as waiter
Pa Shan as thug
Ringo Lam as car mechanic
Ng Sze-yuen as car mechanic
Tsui Hark as car mechanic
Clifton Ko as sports shop owner
Tai Kit Mak


== Production ==
According to co-director Tsui Hark, Ringo Lam handled most of the action scenes in the film. The action in the film has a larger focus on actual martial arts than on Jackie Chan's usual comedic style.


=== Music ===
Ma Yau's Concert depicted in the movie is the Ruslan and Lyudmila Overture, by Mikhail Glinka.


== Release ==
The film received an American release on 9 April 1999 in a dubbed version. The American release of the film cuts 16 minutes of scenes involving Wong Jing and Lau Kar-leung in a hospital and a fantasy scene involving Maggie Cheung singing