Twisted Sister was an American heavy metal band formed in 1972, originally from Ho-Ho-Kus, New Jersey, and later based on Long Island, New York. Their best-known songs include "We're Not Gonna Take It" and "I Wanna Rock", both of which were associated with music videos noted for their sense of slapstick humor.
Twisted Sister evolved from a band named Silver Star, and experienced several membership changes before settling on the classic lineup of Jay Jay French (guitars), Eddie "Fingers" Ojeda (guitars), Dee Snider (lead vocals), Mark "The Animal" Mendoza (bass), and A. J. Pero (drums) in 1982.  It was this lineup which recorded the band's first four albums. Twisted Sister's first two albums, Under the Blade (1982)  and You Can't Stop Rock 'n' Roll (1983), were critically well-received and earned the band underground popularity. The band achieved mainstream success with their third album, Stay Hungry (1984), and its single "We're Not Gonna Take It", which was their only Top 40 hit on the Billboard Hot 100. Their next two albums, Come Out and Play (1985) and Love Is for Suckers (1987), did not match the success of Stay Hungry, and Twisted Sister disbanded in 1988.
The band briefly reunited in the late 1990s before more permanently reforming in 2003. The band released two more albums: Still Hungry (2004), a rerecording of their third album, and the Christmas album, A Twisted Christmas (2006). Following Pero's death in 2015, the band embarked on a farewell tour and broke up again after completing the tour in 2016.
Although Twisted Sister is often regarded as glam metal due to its use of makeup, Snider considers the term to be inappropriate. Twisted Sister is also ranked No. 73 among VH1's 100 greatest artists of hard rock.


== History ==


=== Early days (1972–1976) ===
In late December 1972, Manhattan resident John Segall (who later renamed himself "Jay Jay French") auditioned for and was asked to join the "glitter band" Silver Star from Ho-Ho-Kus, New Jersey. Silver Star was formed by drummer Mel Anderson ("Mel Star") as the "New Jersey version of the New York Dolls", and consisted of Billy Diamond (lead guitar), Wayne Brown (lead vocals and guitar), Tony Bunn (bass), and Steve Guarino (keyboards). Michael O'Neill took over the lead singer role from Wayne Brown who had left; Segall hated the name "Silver Star" and pushed to have it changed. O'Neill came up with the name Twisted Sister at a rehearsal on Valentine's Day in February 1973.  Along with the name change came stylistic changes that eventually resulted in several members leaving the band amicably. Bunn and Guarino left, and Diamond, Star, Segall (now "Johnny Heartbreaker" and soon to change his name permanently to "Jay Jay French"), and new bass player Kenneth Harrison Neill made up the next lineup of Twisted Sister.
The band found work immediately and started playing six nights a week. The group secured a residency at the Mad Hatter in East Quogue, New York for the summer of 1973 and played 78 shows there, and another 27 shows elsewhere, for a total of 105 shows from Memorial Day to Labor Day. By December 1974, Jay Jay had already played nearly 600 nights and about 3,000 performances as the band played five 40-minute shows per night, each with costume changes, some ending as late as 8 a.m. the following morning. At this point the band broke up and a second version of the band brought in a new lead singer (Rick Prince) and guitar player (Keith Angel).  After singer Prince failed to show up for a rehearsal in early 1975, Jay Jay took over the lead vocals and management duties. The band split up after Labor Day weekend 1975. In October 1975, the fourth version of the band started to play the club circuit. Jay Jay hired a former high school friend named Eddie Ojeda, who joined as co-lead singer and second guitarist, and got drummer Kevin John Grace after reading an ad that Kevin had put in the Village Voice. Bassist Neill remained and completed the lineup. The band followe