Twister is a 1996 American disaster thriller film directed by Jan de Bont from a screenplay by Michael Crichton and Anne-Marie Martin. It was produced by Crichton, Kathleen Kennedy, and Ian Bryce, with Steven Spielberg, Walter Parkes, Laurie MacDonald, and Gerald R. Molen serving as executive producers. The film stars an ensemble cast that includes Helen Hunt, Bill Paxton, Jami Gertz and Cary Elwes as a group of amateur but spirited storm chasers trying to deploy a tornado research device during a severe outbreak in Oklahoma. Twister was released in theaters on May 10, 1996. It is notable for being among the first films to be released on DVD in the United States.
Twister grossed $495 million worldwide and became the second-highest-grossing film of 1996; it sold an estimated 54.7 million tickets in the United States. It received generally positive reviews from critics and received Academy Award nominations for Best Visual Effects and Best Sound. A standalone sequel, Twisters, is scheduled to be released on July 19, 2024.


== Plot ==
On an Oklahoma farm in 1969, young Jo, her parents, and their dog, take shelter from an F5 tornado that ultimately destroys their farm and kills Jo's father as he tries to secure their cellar door to protect the family. Twenty-seven years later, Jo is a tornado-obsessed meteorologist leading a rag-tag team of storm chasers. Jo's estranged husband, Bill Harding, an ex-storm chaser turned TV weatherman, travels to Oklahoma with his fiancée, Melissa Reeves, a therapist, to obtain Jo's signature on their divorce papers. 
Jo shows Bill the realized "Dorothy", a capsule-like device containing hundreds of small weather sensors that he conceptualized. Dorothy could revolutionize tornado research and potentially provide an earlier storm-warning system, but the device must be deployed dangerously close to a tornado to work. Jo's team rushes off to chase a developing storm with her failing to sign the divorce papers, forcing Bill and Melissa to follow.
Jonas Miller, a rival storm chaser and former colleague with corporate funding, has stolen Bill's idea for his own Dorothy-like device. Jonas plans to deploy his version first, claiming credit for its design. Enraged, Bill agrees to accompany Jo and the team for one day to successfully launch Dorothy. As the team pursues a developing tornado, Jo's truck runs into a ditch. Jo and Bill shelter under a bridge as the tornado destroys the vehicle and one of the four Dorothy prototypes. With more storms developing, Bill leads the team in his own truck, chasing an intensifying F2 tornado. They encounter Jonas's team just as Bill accurately predicts a sudden change in the tornado's path and diverts their course. While driving through water-filled fields, two waterspouts form, with one of them splitting into two, and violently thrash the vehicle before dissipating. Bill and Jo are unscathed, though Melissa is traumatized.
The team visits Jo's Aunt Meg in nearby Wakita for rest and food. While there, Melissa learns more about Bill's storm-chasing exploits and Jo's childhood trauma. Meanwhile, Meg implies to her niece that Bill and Jo still love each other. The team scrambles to chase a developing twister. Jo and Bill intercept a violent F3 tornado with highly unpredictable movements. It knocks over powerlines that crush Dorothy II. With the truck damaged, Bill forces them to retreat, but Jo undergoes an emotional breakdown over the failure, and unloads about her motivations and her father's death. Bill admits his feelings for Jo, unaware that Melissa is overhearing their entire conversation through the CB radio.
The team overnights in Fairview to repair their vehicles. While there, Jo signs the divorce papers to assuage Bill. A sudden nocturnal F4 wedge tornado forces the team and others into a garage pit near a drive-in theater for protection. The tornado destroys two team vehicles, and injures several people (including a member of Jo's team) before proceeding directly 