Under Siege is a 1992 American action thriller film directed by Andrew Davis, written by J. F. Lawton, and starring Steven Seagal as a former Navy SEAL who must intercept a group of mercenaries, led by Tommy Lee Jones, after they commandeer the U.S. Navy battleship Missouri.
Released on October 9, 1992, Under Siege was both a critical and commercial success, receiving two Academy Award nominations for sound production and grossing over $156.6 million at the global box office. It is often considered Steven Seagal's best film to date. It was followed in 1995 by a sequel, Under Siege 2: Dark Territory, which was not as well received.


== Plot ==
The battleship USS Missouri (BB-63) arrives at Pearl Harbor, where then-President George H. W. Bush announces that the ship will be decommissioned in California. Casey Ryback, a chief petty officer and a culinary specialist, is preparing meals to celebrate commanding officer Captain Adams' birthday, against the orders of executive officer Commander Krill, who has arranged for food and entertainment to be brought by helicopter. Krill provokes a tussle with Ryback. Unable to imprison Ryback in the brig without the captain's approval, Krill detains him in the walk-in fridge and places Marine Private Nash on guard. The helicopter arrives with a musical band and caterers (who are actually mercenaries led by disillusioned former CIA operative William "Bill" Strannix). Accompanying them is Playboy Playmate Jordan Tate.
Strannix's forces, aided by Krill, take over the ship. Several officers are killed, including Captain Adams. The surviving crew are imprisoned in the forecastle, with some stragglers confined in unsecured areas. Ryback hears the gunshots and persuades Nash to call the bridge. Strannix then sends two mercenaries to eliminate Ryback and Nash. Nash is killed, but Ryback slays both mercenaries. He encounters Tate and reluctantly allows her to tag along.
Strannix and his mercenaries seize the ship's weapon systems, shooting down a jet sent to investigate; they plan to cover their escape with missiles to obliterate tracking systems in Pearl Harbor. Strannix's mission is to steal the ship's Tomahawks and load them onto a hijacked North Korean submarine as revenge for the CIA wanting to assassinate him.
Strannix contacts Admiral Bates at the Pentagon to make demands, but learns Ryback has escaped. Krill discovers Ryback is a former Navy SEAL with extensive training in counterterrorism tactics; Captain Adams had taken Ryback aboard as his cook after Ryback was demoted for striking a superior officer who provided inadequate intel for a failed mission in Panama. Ryback contacts Bates who says a Navy SEAL team is underway to retake the ship. Ryback, helped by Tate, moves throughout the ship, eliminating any mercenaries. Krill activates the fire suppression system to flood the forecastle and force Ryback to rescue his mates while also setting an ambush.
Ryback and Tate release six imprisoned sailors. They overcome the ambush and shut off the water flooding the forecastle. Ryback shuts down Missouri's weapon systems to allow incoming Navy SEALs to land, but the submarine crew shoots down the helicopter carrying the team. The Pentagon orders an air strike that will sink the Missouri. Strannix regains control of the ship's weapon systems and loads the Tomahawks onto the submarine. Aided by a gunner's mate, Ryback attacks the submarine using the battleship's 16 inch guns, killing Krill and everyone on board.
His plan foiled, Strannix launches two retaliatory nuclear-tipped Tomahawks towards Honolulu. As the sailors retake the ship, Ryback enters the control room and encounters Strannix; Ryback kills Strannix in a knife fight then uses the launch code disk to destroy the Tomahawk missiles. A jet obliterates one missile and the other is deactivated; the Navy calls off its airstrike.
The remaining crew are released as the ship sails to San Francisco harbor. A funeral ceremony for Captain Adams is he