The 2024 Under Siege was a professional wrestling event produced by Total Nonstop Action Wrestling. It took place on May 3, 2024, at the Washington Avenue Armory in Albany, New York and aired on TNA+. It was the 4th event under the Under Siege chronology.
Twelve matches were contested at the event, including three on the Countdown to Under Siege pre-show. In the main event, The System (Moose, Brian Myers and Eddie Edwards) defeated "Broken" Matt Hardy and Speedball Mountain (Trent Seven and Mike Bailey). In other prominent matches, Mustafa Ali defeated Ace Austin to retain the TNA X Division Championship, Jordynne Grace and PCO defeated Steph De Lander and Kon in a intergender tag team match, and Alisha Edwards and Masha Slamovich defeated Spitfire (Dani Luna and Jody Threat) to win the TNA Knockouts World Tag Team Championship.


== Production ==


=== Background ===
Under Siege is a professional wrestling event held by Total Nonstop Action Wrestling. It is annually held during the month of May, and the first event was held in 2021. On March 7, 2024, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling announced that Under Siege would take place on May 3, 2024, at the Washington Avenue Armory in Albany, New York.


=== Storylines ===
The event will feature several professional wrestling matches, with results predetermined by TNA. Storylines are produced on the company's weekly programs, Impact! and Xplosion.
At Rebellion, The System (Brian Myers and Eddie Edwards) successfully defended the TNA World Tag Team Championship against Speedball Mountain (Trent Seven and Mike Bailey), while in the main event, System member Moose retained the TNA World Championship over Nic Nemeth. The System was set to celebrate at the end of the show, only for the lights to go out. When they came back on, "Broken" Matt Hardy, making his full-time  return to TNA in over 7 years, appeared and attacked The System. On the subsequent episode of TNA Impact, Nemeth and Hardy would declare "war" on The System, with Nemeth taking on Edwards later in the night. TNA also announced that The System will face Nemeth and Speedball Mountain in a six-man tag team match at Under Siege. However, after Edwards defeated Nemeth on that night's main event, The System ambushed Nemeth with a chair shot to the head, injuring Nemeth's neck and taking him out of Under Siege. As Nemeth was being checked by medical staff backstage, Hardy asked TNA Director of Authority Santino Marella to take Nemeth's place in the match at Under Siege, which was granted.
On the April 25 TNA Impact, TNA X Division Champion Mustafa Ali held a "Ballot Box Battle," where members of the TNA roster and staff cast a vote to determine who would challenge Ali for his title at Under Siege. The votes were tallied, and it was determined that Trey Miguel had won by a "suspiciously large margin" of 60 votes. However, Leon Slater accused The Rascalz (Miguel, Zachary Wentz, and Myron Reed) of vote tampering, with Ali suggesting that he have Under Siege off due to this "voter fraud". Santino Marella, in response, suggested a "run-off" number one contender's match between Miguel and Ace Austin – who had the second-highest number of votes – the following week to determine Ali's Under Siege challenger. Austin would defeat Miguel to become Ali's next challenger.
At Rebellion, Jordynne Grace defended the TNA Knockouts World Championship against Steph De Lander. De Lander originally had Matt Cardona in her corner, but Cardona had torn his pectoral muscle and needed surgery. Thus, De Lander enlisted The Good Hands (Jason Hotch and John Skyler) and later Kon to help her defeat Grace. In the closing moments of the match, the lights would go out, revealing PCO and a returning Sami Callihan to neutralize De Lander's helpers and allow Grace to retain her title. On the following TNA Impact, De Lander and Kon challenged Grace and PCO to a intergender tag team match at Under Siege, which TNA made official.
For the past few weeks, The System had tr