Very Bad Things is a 1998 American black comedy film written and directed by Peter Berg in his feature film directorial debut and starring Cameron Diaz, Jon Favreau, Daniel Stern, Jeremy Piven, Christian Slater, Leland Orser, Kobe Tai and Jeanne Tripplehorn.
The plot follows a group of men who become embroiled in crime and betrayal after they attempt to conceal an accidental death. Very Bad Things earned mostly negative reviews and grossed $21 million against a $30 million budget.


== Plot ==
Kyle Fisher and Laura Garrety are a young suburbanite couple days away from their wedding. While Laura finalizes last-minute wedding details, Kyle is away in Las Vegas celebrating his bachelor party with four friends—real estate agent Robert, mechanic Charles, and brothers Adam and Michael. As part of the festivities, Robert hires a stripper named Tina to entertain the men in their hotel room. Tina is accidentally killed while having rough sex with Michael in the bathroom. Robert convinces the guys that the best option is to stay quiet about it and bury her body in the desert. A security guard arrives to investigate the noise in the guys' room and discovers Tina's corpse. In desperation, Robert stabs the guard to death. He then convinces the group to dismember both bodies and bury them in the desert before returning home.
At the rehearsal dinner, Adam cracks under the pressure from guilt, leading to a confrontation with Michael outside and Adam threatening to turn him over to the police. As Michael leaves the dinner, he attempts to ram Adam's beloved minivan with his Jeep. Adam runs to protect his van but is crushed in the collision. In the hospital, Adam whispers something to his wife Lois before dying, as Robert looks on through a glass window.
Lois demands answers about what happened in Las Vegas and finds a written confession by Adam. Kyle makes up a story about Adam sleeping with a prostitute. Robert, suspecting Lois does not believe them, kills her and frames Michael by luring him to Lois' house, where Michael is in turn killed. Robert concocts a story about a Michael/Lois/Adam love triangle when police interrogate him. After these events and being named a beneficiary of Adam and Lois's estate, Kyle breaks down and confesses the real story to Laura, who demands that her dream wedding proceed as planned.
On the wedding day, Robert confronts Kyle and demands the money from Adam's life insurance policy. Kyle refuses and a fight ensues which ends with Laura bludgeoning Robert. During the ceremony, Kyle and Charles realize that Robert has the wedding rings. When Charles goes to retrieve the rings, he opens a door that knocks Robert down a stairwell to his death. Laura demands Kyle bury Robert's body in the desert and instructs him to tie up loose ends by killing Charles. Kyle buries Robert's body and prepares to bludgeon Charles with a shovel, but ultimately cannot bring himself to kill his friend. The two men drive home together, but Kyle daydreams at the wheel and accidentally crashes into an oncoming car.
After the collision, Kyle's legs are amputated below the knee and Charles is a quadriplegic confined to a motorized wheelchair. Laura is appointed as the caretaker for the both of them, in addition to raising Adam and Lois's sons. As Laura watches Kyle with the two boys, it hits her that her life and dreams are totally ruined, prompting her to have a nervous breakdown in which she runs out of the house and collapses screaming in the street.


== Cast ==


== Production ==
Adam Sandler was originally attached to a role in the ensemble cast, but he dropped out to do The Waterboy instead and was replaced by Jeremy Piven.
Very Bad Things was noted for having a very similar plot setup to Stag, a film which originally aired on HBO in June 1997. Director Peter Berg told The A.V. Club in 1998, "See, the first time I'd ever heard about Stag was after I had finished writing the screenplay for Very Bad Things. When we were at the point of gett