The Walking Dead is an American zombie apocalypse media franchise centered on a number of television series based on the comic book of the same name. Set in one fictional shared universe, the franchise has developed into seven live-action television series, with one additional series in development. The franchise also includes eight web series that tie into the first two television series. The series all air on AMC and AMC+.
The Walking Dead comic book was initially adapted into The Walking Dead television series (2010–2022). It was followed by the spin-off series Fear the Walking Dead (2015–2023), and the franchise further expanded with the spin-off series The Walking Dead: World Beyond (2020–2021), and an anthology series entitled Tales of the Walking Dead (2022).
There have been three new spin-off series for main The Walking Dead characters: The Walking Dead: Dead City (2023–present), which focuses on Negan and Maggie; The Walking Dead: Daryl Dixon (2023–present), which focuses on Daryl; and The Walking Dead: The Ones Who Live (2024), which focuses on Rick and Michonne. Another series entitled More Tales from the Walking Dead Universe is in development.


== Development ==
In January 2010, AMC ordered a pilot for The Walking Dead, based on the comic book of the same name and developed by Frank Darabont and Gale Anne Hurd. Andrew Lincoln was cast as Rick Grimes. The show premiered on October 31, 2010. The Walking Dead became known as AMC's flagship series and as a ratings juggernaut. Beginning with its third season, The Walking Dead attracted the most 18- to 49-year-old viewers of any cable or broadcast television series. The series was positively received by critics.
In September 2013, it was announced that Robert Kirkman, creator of the original comic book, Hurd, and Dave Alpert would create a companion spin-off television series featuring a new set of characters. The show was entitled Fear the Walking Dead. The series began as a prequel, but later shifted to run concurrently with the original series by adding Lennie James to the main cast of Fear the Walking Dead, reprising his role as Morgan Jones on The Walking Dead. James' appearance on Fear the Walking Dead was the first crossover within the franchise. The second crossover occurred when Austin Amelio reprised his role as the reformed Savior Dwight in the show's fifth season.
In July 2018, Scott M. Gimple announced a second spin-off series at San Diego Comic-Con. The show was later given a 10-episode order and the working title Monument. It was later re-titled The Walking Dead: World Beyond, and it ran for two seasons. The second season featured the franchise's third crossover, with Pollyanna McIntosh reprising her role as Jadis from The Walking Dead. 
In November 2018, Gimple announced that a trilogy of The Walking Dead films--revolving around the character of Rick, with Lincoln reprising his role--were in development by AMC Original Films. James expressed interest in joining the film, and McIntosh had teased her character Jadis as being in the film.
In September 2020, Gimple announced that an anthology series was in the works. The series was greenlit in October 2021 and was entitled Tales of the Walking Dead. 
In 2022, multiple spinoffs were announced. One such spinoff was The Walking Dead: Dead City, a spinoff focusing on Maggie Greene and Negan that was originally entitled Isle of the Dead; Another was The Walking Dead: Daryl Dixon. This show was originally intended to be a spin-off about the titular character and Carol Peletier, but it shifted focus to Daryl due to logistical reasons involving Melissa McBride, who portrays Carol. Another spinoff announced in 2022 was The Walking Dead: The Ones Who Live, which was originally intended to be a trilogy of films announced in 2019 but was reworked into a miniseries. The Ones Who Live was originally entitled Rick & Michonne. In a November 2022 interview with AMC, Gimple said that more spinoffs were still to come.
The dev