An armed conflict between Israel and Hamas-led Palestinian militant groups has been taking place chiefly in the Gaza Strip since 7 October 2023. Clashes have also occurred in the Israeli-occupied West Bank and with Hezbollah along the Israel–Lebanon–Golan Heights border. The fifth war of the Gaza–Israel conflict since 2008, it is part of the broader Israeli–Palestinian conflict, and the most significant military engagement in the region since the Yom Kippur War 50 years earlier.
The war began when Hamas-led militant groups launched a surprise attack on Israel on 7 October. An estimated 3,000 militants breached the Gaza–Israel barrier and attacked Israeli civilian communities and military bases. Several thousand rockets were concurrently launched into Israel. During this attack, 1,139 Israelis and foreign nationals were killed, including 766 civilians and 373 security personnel. In addition, 252 Israelis and foreigners were taken captive into Gaza, resulting in an ongoing hostage crisis. Hamas said its attack was in response to the continued Israeli occupation of the Palestinian territories, the blockade of the Gaza Strip, the expansion of illegal Israeli settlements, as well as alleged threats to the Al-Aqsa Mosque and the plight of Palestinian refugees and prisoners.
After clearing militants from its territory, Israel responded by launching one of the most destructive bombing campaigns in modern history, before commencing a large-scale ground invasion on 27 October with the stated objectives of destroying Hamas and releasing the hostages.Since the start of the Israeli operation, more than 35,000 Palestinians in Gaza have been killed, of which the UN estimates at least 56% are women and children. 10,000 others are missing and presumed trapped under rubble. Nearly all of the strip's 2.3 million Palestinian population has been forcibly displaced, and over one hundred thousand Israelis remain internally displaced. Israel's tightened blockade cut off basic necessities and its attacks on infrastructure have led to a humanitarian crisis in the Gaza Strip, including a collapse of the healthcare system and an impending famine. By early 2024, Israeli forces had damaged or destroyed more than half of Gaza's houses, at least a third of its tree cover and farmland, most of its schools and universities, in what has been called 'scholasticide', hundreds of cultural landmarks, and dozens of cemeteries. Israel's ground invasion initially focused on northern Gaza, which it had reoccupied by January 2024. After a seven-day truce involving exchange of captives, Israel moved south to attack Khan Yunis on 3 December. On 24 May, the International Court of Justice ruled that Israel must immediately halt its Rafah offensive.
The war has had significant international repercussions. Large protests have occurred across the world, primarily pro-Palestinian ones calling for a ceasefire and an end to the Israeli occupation. Israel's actions have been denounced in the Islamic world and much of the Global South. In December 2023, South Africa launched proceedings at the International Court of Justice alleging that Israel is committing genocide in Gaza. Israel has received significant support from its traditional Western allies, most notably the United States, which has provided Israel extensive military aid throughout the war and has vetoed multiple UN Security Council ceasefire resolutions. Meanwhile, the Axis of Resistance, an alliance between Iran and several non-state actors, has attacked American military bases in the Middle East, and the Yemeni Houthi movement started attacks on commercial ships they alleged were linked to Israel, incurring a US-led military response.


== Background ==

In 1967, following the Six-Day War fought between Israel and a coalition of Arab states (primarily Egypt, Syria, and Jordan), Israel occupied the Palestinian territories, including the Gaza Strip which had formerly been occupied by Egypt. A process of Arab-Israeli norm