The Way We Were is a 1973 American romantic drama film directed by Sydney Pollack and starring Barbra Streisand and Robert Redford. Arthur Laurents adapted the screenplay from his own 1972 novel of the same name, which was based on his college days at Cornell University and his experiences with the House Un-American Activities Committee.
A box-office success, the film was nominated for several awards and won the Academy Awards for Best Original Dramatic Score and Best Original Song for the theme song "The Way We Were". It ranked at number six on AFI's 100 Years...100 Passions survey of the top 100 greatest love stories in American cinema. The Way We Were is considered one of the great romantic films.
The soundtrack album became a gold record and hit the Top 20 on the Billboard 200, while the title song became a gold single, topping the Billboard Hot 100 and selling more than two million copies. Billboard named "The Way We Were" as the number 1 pop hit of 1974. In 1998, the song was inducted into the Grammy Hall of Fame and finished at number eight on the American Film Institute's 100 Years... 100 Songs list of top tunes in American cinema in 2004. It also was included in the list of Songs of the Century, by the Recording Industry Association of America and the National Endowment for the Arts.


== Plot ==
Katie Morosky and Hubbell Gardiner are two college students with immensely different lives in 1937. Katie is a staunch Marxist Jew with strong anti-war opinions, while Hubbell is a carefree WASP with no particular political bent. As their paths cross, Katie admires Hubbell's good looks and his excellent writing; Hubbell is charmed by Katie's steadfast commitment to social causes. His snobbish friends mock Katie and her passionate political stances. They briefly dance at the senior prom, then part ways.
The two meet again in New York City near the end of World War II: Katie juggles multiple jobs, and Hubbell is back from active duty as a naval officer in the South Pacific. The unlikely pair fall in love. After President Franklin D. Roosevelt dies, Katie is incensed when Hubbell's friends make disparaging jokes. She rejects Hubbell's indifference towards their insensitivity and dismissive political engagement. Hubbell is frustrated by Katie's bluntness and strong opinions; he ends their relationship, but they eventually reconcile.
Hubbell receives an offer to adapt his novel into a screenplay, but Katie is concerned his talent will be wasted in Hollywood. Despite her apprehensions, they move to Malibu, where Hubbell's studio contract offers an affluent lifestyle. As the Hollywood blacklist grows and McCarthyism encroaches on their lives, Katie's political activism resurfaces, potentially jeopardizing Hubbell's reputation and livelihood. 
Katie and others publicly confront the government over personal privacy and free speech. Her involvement strains the marriage, and Hubbell becomes alienated over Katie's persistent political combativeness. Although Katie is now pregnant, Hubbell has an affair with his former college girlfriend. Katie realizes Hubbell is not the man she idealized and that he will always choose the easiest path. Hubbell is emotionally exhausted and unable to live up to Katie's expectations of him. After their daughter's birth, Katie and Hubbell divorce. 
Years later, Katie and Hubbell meet by chance in front of the Plaza Hotel in New York City, where Katie is demonstrating to "Ban the Bomb". A taxi interrupts their reunion, but they ultimately part with a tender, bittersweet farewell.


== Cast ==


== Production ==
In 1937, while an undergraduate at Cornell, Arthur Laurents was introduced to political activism by a student who became the model for Katie Morosky, a member of the Young Communist League and an outspoken opponent of Francisco Franco and his effort to take control of Spain via the Spanish Civil War. The fiery campus radical organized rallies and a peace strike, and the memory of her fervour remained 