The Way of the Gun is a 2000 American neo-Western heist action thriller film directed and written by Christopher McQuarrie in his directorial debut. It is about two low-level criminals (Ryan Phillippe and Benicio del Toro) who kidnap a woman (Juliette Lewis) pregnant with the child of a mafia money launderer, only to find themselves facing a more complex and dangerous situation than they first realized. Taye Diggs, Nicky Katt, Scott Wilson, and James Caan play supporting roles.
The film was released on September 8, 2000, and was a commercial disappointment, grossing $13 million against a production budget of $8.5 million. The critical reception was mixed, with some critics praising the acting, direction and action sequences, but criticizing the limits of the script, pacing and character development.


== Plot ==
Parker and Longbaugh are petty criminals hoping for the proverbial "big score". At a sperm donation clinic, the pair overhear a telephone conversation detailing a $1 million payment to a surrogate mother. They kidnap the heavily pregnant surrogate, Robin, resulting in a shootout with her bodyguards, Jeffers and Obecks, who are arrested. Longbaugh summons Robin's gynecologist, Dr. Allen Painter, to a truck stop to examine her, and he explains that she is carrying the child of money launderer Hale Chidduck and his wife, Francesca. 
Jeffers and Obecks are bailed out by Chidduck's right-hand man, Joe Sarno, and Painter is revealed to be Chidduck's son. The kidnappers call from a motel south of the Mexican border, demanding that Chidduck send the doctor to deliver a $15 million ransom and induce labor. Francesca is having an affair with Jeffers, and overhears his and Obecks' plan to recover the baby but kill the kidnappers, Robin, and Painter, keeping the money for themselves.
Sarno approaches Longbaugh as Chidduck's "bag-man", and Longbaugh declines $1 million to simply walk away but joins him for a cup of coffee. They commiserate about the state of their underworld professions, filled with characters who "want to be criminals more than they want to commit crimes", and guardedly go their separate ways, but Sarno leaves his associate Abner to watch the kidnappers. Robin reveals to Parker and Longbaugh that Francesca's embryo failed to implant, and Painter is actually the father of her child. Proceeding with the ransom plan, Jeffers and Obecks realize that Robin is Sarno's daughter. 
At the motel, Parker has second thoughts, but Robin seizes a shotgun and calls the police, forcing Parker and Longbaugh to flee. Mexican police arrive as Robin is confronted by Jeffers, Obecks, Painter, and Abner. As the officers hold everyone at gunpoint, Parker and Longbaugh open fire from a nearby hilltop, killing the officers and wounding Obecks, and Jeffers drives off with Painter and Robin. Parker and Longbaugh torture Obecks to reveal that Jeffers has taken Robin to a Mexican brothel, and a mortally wounded Abner notifies Sarno.
Jeffers forces Painter to perform a Caesarean section to retrieve the baby, despite Robin's confession that the child is not the Chidducks'. Parker and Longbaugh, heavily armed, storm the brothel, while Sarno arrives with his own men and stacks the ransom money in the courtyard outside. Painter shoots Jeffers, and Longbaugh has a change of heart at seeing Robin's condition, urging Parker that "She's had enough." Aware that the money is bait, Parker and Longbaugh charge headlong into an ambush.
Sarno's men are killed in the ensuing firefight, but Sarno shoots and cripples Parker and Longbaugh. An ambulance arrives as Painter emerges with Robin and the baby, and the gravely wounded Parker and Longbaugh inform Sarno that the child is his grandson. The ambulance departs with Robin, Painter, their child, Sarno, and the money, leaving Parker and Longbaugh to die. Days later, Francesca reveals to her husband that she’s pregnant (possibly due to her affair with Jeffers).


== Cast ==
Ryan Phillippe as Parker
Benicio del T