Wayne's World 2 is a 1993 American comedy film directed by Stephen Surjik and starring Mike Myers and Dana Carvey as hosts of a public-access television cable television show in Aurora, Illinois. The film is the sequel to Wayne's World (1992), which was itself adapted from a sketch on NBC's Saturday Night Live.


== Plot ==
Rock and roll fans Wayne Campbell and Garth Algar now host their public-access television show, Wayne's World, from an abandoned doll factory and Wayne's new home in Aurora, Illinois. Wayne, Garth and two of their co-workers attend an Aerosmith concert, with Wayne and Garth having backstage passes. They meet up with Wayne's girlfriend Cassandra (lead singer and bassist of the band Crucial Taunt) and are introduced to her new producer, Bobby Cahn; the duo is then denied further access backstage in spite of having passes. That night, Wayne has a dream in which he meets Jim Morrison and a "weird naked Indian" in a desert. Morrison convinces Wayne that his destiny is to organize a major music festival. Wayne and Garth dub the concert "Waynestock" (a pun on "Woodstock") and hire a former roadie, Del Preston. Their early attempts to sign bands (Aerosmith, Pearl Jam, and Van Halen are mentioned off the cuff by Wayne) and sell tickets fail, and Wayne wonders if the endeavor is futile.
Bobby tries to pull Cassandra away from Illinois, and Wayne, and have her move to Los Angeles. Wayne becomes suspicious of Bobby's ulterior motives and spies on them while they are having lunch; Wayne is spotted by them and flees with Garth and their friends while Bobby gives chase. Wayne and company are able to evade Bobby after performing an impromptu performance of "Y.M.C.A" in a gay club. After Wayne later admits spying on her, Cassandra breaks up with him and becomes engaged to Bobby. Wayne becomes more determined to make Waynestock a success in order to get Cassandra back. In the meantime, Garth meets a beautiful woman named Honey Hornée. Later, Hornée attempts to manipulate Garth into killing her ex-husband, but Garth ends the relationship.
Tickets are sold for Waynestock, but no bands arrive. Leaving Garth to keep the rowdy crowd in check, Wayne disrupts Cassandra's wedding before escaping the ceremony with her and they get back together, in a scene closely resembling the finale of The Graduate. Meanwhile, Garth has stage fright during the concert and the crowd grows impatient. Wayne returns to find the bands have still not arrived.
In another desert dream, Wayne and Garth consult Morrison, who says that the bands will not come, and that all that matters is they tried. Unable to return to Waynestock, they become lost in the desert and begin to die of thirst. Finding this unacceptable, Wayne and Garth reenact the ending of Thelma & Louise, driving their car off a cliff while trying to find the bands. Finally, Wayne and Garth admit that they just have to end the film with a standard happy ending in which the bands arrive, and Waynestock is a success. Morrison tells Wayne that he needed to organize Waynestock to learn that Cassandra loves him for who he is; and also that adulthood requires one to take responsibility while being able to find fun in life. Bobby arrives to Waynestock to pursue Cassandra, but is prevented from entering.
In a mid-credits scene, the entire park is covered with trash after the concert. The "weird naked Indian" begins to cry, but he cheers up when Wayne and Garth promise to clean up.


== Cast ==


== Production ==
Penelope Spheeris, who directed the first film, believes that Myers encouraged the studio not to have her back for the sequel due to personality conflicts with Myers during the making of the first film. She went on to direct another TV to big screen adaptation, The Beverly Hillbillies, instead and was replaced by Stephen Surjik for the sequel.
Myers' original script for Wayne's World 2 had Wayne and Garth forming their own country and seceding from the US after finding an ancient scroll, in a 