A gift or a present is an item given to someone, without the expectation of payment or anything in return. An item is not a gift if that item is already owned by the one to whom it is given. Although gift-giving might involve an expectation of reciprocity, a gift is meant to be free. In many countries, the act of mutually exchanging money, goods, etc. may sustain social relationship and contribute to social cohesion. Economists have elaborated the economics of gift-giving into the notion of a gift economy. By extension, the term gift can refer to any item or act of service that makes the other happier or less sad, especially as a favour, including forgiveness and kindness. Gifts are often presented on occasions such as birthdays and holidays.


== History ==


== Presentation ==
In many cultures gifts are traditionally packaged in some way. For example, in Western cultures, gifts are often wrapped in wrapping paper and accompanied by a gift note which may note the occasion, the recipient's name and the giver's name. In Chinese culture, red wrapping connotes luck. Although inexpensive gifts are common among colleagues, associates and acquaintances, expensive or amorous gifts are considered more appropriate among close friends, romantic interests or relatives.


== Gift-giving occasions ==
Gift-giving occasions may be:

Wedding Gifts, Bridesmaid Proposals
An expression of love or friendship
An expression of gratitude for a gift received.
An expression of piety, in the form of charity.
An expression of solidarity, in the form of mutual aid.
To share wealth.
To offset misfortune.
Offering travel souvenirs.
Custom, on occasions (often celebrations) such as
A birthday (the person who has his or her birthday gives cake, etc. and/or receives gifts).
A potlatch, in societies where status is associated with gift-giving rather than acquisition.
Christmas (throughout the history of Christmas gift giving, people have given one another gifts, often pretending they are left by Santa Claus, the Christ Child or Saint Nicholas).
Feast of Saint Nicholas (people give each other gifts, often supposedly receiving them from Saint Nicholas).
Easter baskets with chocolate eggs, jelly beans, and chocolate rabbits are gifts given on Easter.
Greek Orthodox Christians in Greece, will give gifts to family and friends on the Feast of Saint Basil.
Muslims give gifts to family and friends, known as Eidi, on Eid al-Fitr (the end of Ramadan) and on Eid al-Adha.
American Jews give Hanukkah gifts to family and friends.
Hindus give Diwali and Pongal gifts to family and friends. Rakhi or Raksha Bandhan is another occasion where brothers give gifts to sisters.
Buddhists give Vesak gifts to family and friends.
Gifts are given to among African American families and friends on Kwanzaa.
A wedding (the couple receives gifts and gives food and/or drinks at the wedding reception).
A wedding anniversary (each spouse receives gifts).
A funeral (visitors bring flowers, the relatives of the deceased give food and/or drinks after the ceremonial part).
A birth (the baby receives gifts, or the mother receives a gift from the father known as a push present).
Passing an examination (the student receives gifts).
Father's Day (the father receives gifts).
Mother's Day (the mother receives gifts).
Siblings Day (the sibling receives gifts)
The exchange of gifts between a guest and a host, is often a traditional practice.
Lagniappe
Retirement Gifts
Congratulations Gifts
Engagement Gifts
Housewarming party Gifts
Women's day Gifts
Valentine's Day


== Promotional gifts ==
Promotional gifts vary from the normal gifts. The recipients of the gifts may be either employee of a company or the clients. Promotional gifts are mainly used for advertising purposes. They are used to promote the brand name and increase its awareness among the people. In promotional gifting procedures, the quality and presentation of the gifts hold more value than the gifts itself since it will act as a gateway to acqui