Weekend at Bernie's II is a 1993 American black comedy film written and directed by Robert Klane. It is the sequel to Klane's 1989 comedy Weekend at Bernie's and starring Andrew McCarthy, Jonathan Silverman, Terry Kiser, and Barry Bostwick. It tells the story of Larry and Richard once again ending up with their late boss' corpse, which is targeted by a voodoo queen hired by mobsters.
The film was panned by critics and grossed $12.7 million at the box office.


== Plot ==
Larry Wilson and Richard Parker are at a Manhattan morgue where they see the corpse of their CEO Bernie Lomax. Larry falsely claims Bernie as his uncle, so he can get some of Bernie's possessions including Bernie's credit card. At the insurance company, Larry and Richard are quizzed by their boss and Arthur Hummel, the company's internal investigator, who ask the two if they have the US$2 million that Bernie embezzled. They deny knowing where the money is, but their boss believes that they are lying and fires them. He also sends Hummel after them, giving him two weeks to prove their guilt.
Over dinner paid for with Bernie's credit card, Larry tells Richard he found a key to a safe deposit box in St. Thomas, U.S. Virgin Islands, and asks Richard if he will use the computer at work to see if the $2 million is in Bernie's account. At first Richard refuses but ultimately gives in.
Meanwhile in the U.S. Virgin Islands, a voodoo queen named Mobu is hired by mobsters to find the $2 million Bernie stole. She sends two servants Henry and Charles to go to New York, get Bernie's body, use a voodoo ceremony to reanimate him, and bring him back to her so he can lead her to the money. Their attempts to bring Bernie back are plagued by accidents. They prepare in a bathroom at a shady adult movie theatre for the voodoo ceremony. Having lost the sacrificial chicken, they use a pigeon instead. As a result, Bernie is reanimated but only moves when he hears music. At the 42nd Street–Grand Central subway station, Henry and Charles soon abandon him to chase a man who stole their boombox.
Later that night, Larry and Richard sneak into their office building to check Bernie's account only to find that Bernie is the only one that can open it. They are soon arrested by police officers for breaking and entering. After their release, they find Bernie, whom they believe is still completely dead, stuff him into a suitcase, bring him with them to the Virgin Islands, and put him into a small refrigerator in their hotel room.
Unbeknownst to the two, Hummel is following them to recover the embezzled cash. The men use Bernie to open his safety deposit box but only find a map. Meanwhile, Larry befriends a lovely native girl named Claudia and gives her the map. Henry and Charles capture the two and take them to Mobu. With one of the mobsters holding a gun to his head, she forces Richard to drink a poisonous potion and tells them they must find the map by sundown to get the antidote.
When Larry, Richard, and Claudia are reunited, they are shocked to discover that the undead Bernie is moving and realize he is leading them towards the $2 million. To keep him moving, they put a Walkman with headphones on his head. As Bernie finds a large chest underwater, their resulting excitement causes Larry to accidentally shoot Bernie in the head with a speargun, destroying the headphones.
They attempt to bring Bernie back to the surface but he will not let go of the chest, which is too heavy to hoist out of the water. They end up attaching Bernie to a horse carriage with music playing. It seems to work at first, but when they go downhill, the carriage goes out of control. Eventually, the carriage ends up at Mobu's place. Bernie hits a large tree branch and spins into a somersault before knocking out Mobu. The crash also causes Bernie to drop the chest on the ground and it breaks open. Larry tries to scoop up the money, but is caught by Hummel (now slightly unhinged upon seeing the undead Bernie walk) and he give