What Happened to the Heart? is the upcoming fourth studio album by Norwegian singer-songwriter and record producer Aurora, set for release on 7 June 2024 through Decca, Glassnote and Petroleum Records. Written and recorded between Norway, Germany, the United Kingdom and the United States, Aurora worked with Ane Brun, Matias Tellez, Tom Rowlands, Chris Greatti, Dave Hamelin and Magnus Skylstad on its production.
Aurora began working on What Happened to the Heart? during a tour in promotion of The Gods We Can Touch, and conceived the album as a cathartic process. It has been preceded by the release of three singles, "Your Blood", "The Conflict of the Mind", and "Some Type of Skin", as well as the promotional single "To Be Alright". To promote the album, Aurora will embark on a European and American headlining concert tour between June and December 2024.


== Background and conception ==
In April 2022, Aurora read a letter co-written by indigenous activists titled "We Are the Earth", which, according to magazine The Line of Best Fit, "changed her life". The letter called for a revolution: a collective response to global warming. They described the planet as "the heart that pulsates within us", a statement that led Aurora to create the album's title and concept. She began writing the album while on tour for The Gods We Can Touch, her previous album released on 21 January 2022. In January 2023, Aurora confirmed that she was back in the recording studio working on new music, which she called "so many babies".
What Happened to the Heart? was announced via her social media accounts on 28 March 2024. She has dubbed the album as her most personal and cathartic project in her career. In a press release, she added: "Though its precise function and anatomy were not clearly understood, the heart was believed to be the centre of the soul. Of intuition. Of emotion and intention. Until we decided these were qualifications of the mind. Emotion overpowered by logic. And with the world being so corrupted by money, power and selfishness you cannot help but ask yourself – what happened to the heart?". Being interviewed by NME, the singer said that the title of the album is "the most important, beautiful and sad question I've ever wondered in my life".


== Recording and production ==
What Happened to the Heart? was recorded and produced between Norway, Germany, London, and Los Angeles. On the album, Aurora worked with her close collaborator Magnus Skylstad, along with musicians Ane Brun, Matias Tellez, Tom Rowlands of The Chemical Brothers, Chris Greatti and Dave Hamelin.


== Composition ==
Aurora stated that the album's sound is very different from the previously released songs. On "Some Type of Skin", she "hone[s] in" on her signature alternative pop sound, as well as introduce synth-pop and elements of electropop.


== Promotion ==


=== Singles ===
What Happened to the Heart? was preceded by the release of three singles. The song "Your Blood" was released on 8 November 2023 as the lead single from the album. It marked her first solo musical material since The Gods We Can Touch in 2022. The second single, titled "The Conflict of the Mind", was released on 18 January 2024 along a music video co-directed by Aurora alongside Kaveh Nabatian from The Barr Brothers. "Some Type of Skin" was released as the third single from the record on 20 March 2024. She performed it for the first time during an intimate show at London's Lafayette. The fourth single, "To Be Alright", was released digitally on 31 May.


=== Tour ===
On 28 March 2024, along with the album announcement, Aurora confirmed that she will embark on her sixth concert tour. The first leg of the tour, titled What Happened to the Earth? Part 1 Tour, was announced that day, with dates in European cities including Milan, Vienna, Prague, Krakow, Warsaw, Berlin, Brussels, Amsterdam, Paris, London and Manchester. It contains a concert at the Royal Albert Hall. General sale for the leg started on 5 A