What Lies Beneath is the third album by the Finnish singer Tarja Turunen, which was released on 1 September 2010 in Finland, on 3 September in Germany, Switzerland and Austria and on 14 September in Latin and North America. It is the first of Tarja's albums in which she is credited for composition on every track. The album was mixed at '62 Studios in Austin Texas by Tim Palmer.
In 2008, after the first leg of the Storm World Tour, Turunen took time to compose new songs. She announced in her blog two songs that she had composed in her time off, "Wisdom of Wind" and "Enough", both later released on the My Winter Storm extended edition. On January 25, Turunen announced on her blog the name of her follow-up to My Winter Storm and talked about the album, revealing titles and lyrics.
What Lies Beneath, which sold around 1,300 copies in the United States in its first week of release, landed at position 24 on the Billboard's Top Heatseekers, which lists the best-selling albums by new and developing artists. In Finland, it was at 6th position after two months on the official Finnish charts, also spending two months on the German Top 100, one and a half months on the Austrian Top 40, and a full month on the charts in Switzerland, Belgium and Greece, ending 2010 at 13th position on Billboard's Top 100 of best-selling albums in Europe.


== Background and composition ==
In 2008, after the first leg of the Storm World Tour, Turunen took time to compose new songs. She revealed in her blog two songs that she composed in her time off, "Wisdom Of Wind" and "Enough", both later released on the My Winter Storm Extended edition.
On 25 January, Turunen posted on her blog announcing the name of her follow-up to My Winter Storm and talking about the album:

My friends,
Happy 2009!

In the last months I've been writing a lot of music for my new album.... Song writing is always an amazing learning experience and it has been a pleasure to discuss music with different people. The album process is still going on and I have more songs that are in the working.... With My Winter Storm I chose the name of the album in the early stages and that helped me to create the concept for the album. With the new album I decided to do it the same way, so I searched for an inspiring title and all the songs are one way or another related to it. So I leave you now with the working title of my new album: "What Lies Beneath".
After the break in her tour Tarja returned with the second leg, called "Summer Storm", which started on 5 June, in which she played a new song called "If You Believe", which is meant to be released on What Lies Beneath. In a video interview with Metalhead magazine, on 21 June, Tarja said that it "[...] will be a continuation of the method that I used on my first album, My Winter Storm. It is a very experimental album and has been or is My Winter Storm. But some elements are more worked, for example the guitars in some songs. It's an album [that is] more mature and more personal than the first". In another interview in a Romanian magazine, she stated that the album "is an album more mature, the songs are more "film" and have strong lyrics. People around me affect me, the books of Paulo Coelho, the nature and the mysteries of life. Musically the album is a mixture of metal, soundtrack and classical music. It will be a continuation of the previous one. It will be very experimental." In an interview with a Venezuelan radio on 19 May 2009, Tarja said that she has twenty songs ready to record, and she announced via her official blog that the recording process was finished on 14 April 2010.


== Title and lyrics ==
Speaking to the german magazine Metal.de, Tarja told that the title of "What Lies Beneath" was actually chosen two years before its release. And about it concept, she explained: "stands for the question of what constitutes an artist, what describes me as a person, as a woman. I write about things that sometimes need a second look. As a small person