Where Eagles Dare is a 1968 action adventure war thriller spy film directed by Brian G. Hutton and starring Richard Burton, Clint Eastwood and Mary Ure. It follows a Special Operations Executive team of men attempting to save a captured American General from the fictional Schloß Adler fortress, except the mission turns out not to be as it seems. It was filmed in Panavision using the Metrocolor process, and was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. Alistair MacLean wrote the screenplay, his first, at the same time that he wrote the novel of the same name. Both became commercial successes.
The film involved some of the top filmmakers of the day and was shot on location in Austria and Bavaria. Hollywood stuntman Yakima Canutt was the second unit director and shot most of the action scenes; British stuntman Alf Joint doubled for Burton in many sequences, including the fight on top of the cable car; award-winning conductor and composer Ron Goodwin wrote the film score; and future Oscar-nominee Arthur Ibbetson worked on the cinematography. Where Eagles Dare received mostly positive critical reaction, with praise for the action sequences, musical score and the performances of Burton and Eastwood, and is considered a classic.


== Plot ==
In the winter of 1943-44, MI6 officers Colonel Turner and Admiral Rolland assign Major John Smith, five other commandos of the Special Operations Executive, and U.S. Army Ranger Lieutenant Morris Schaffer of the OSS to rescue U.S. Army Brigadier General George Carnaby, a chief planner for the Western Front. Carnaby was captured by the Germans and taken to the Schloß Adler, a mountaintop fortress in the Bavarian alpine village of Werfen, which is accessible only by cable car. Disguised as German troops, Smith and his team are to parachute in, infiltrate the castle, and rescue General Carnaby before the Germans can interrogate him. After a Ju 52 transport plane drops the team into Germany, agent Mary Ellison is dropped separately in secret, her presence known only to Smith. 
Though two commandos are mysteriously killed, Smith continues the operation; he keeps Schaffer as a close ally, and helps Mary to meet local agent Heidi Schmidt, who arranges for Mary to be employed as a maid at the castle. In Werfen, the Germans eventually surround the commandos in a tavern, forcing them to surrender. Smith and Schaffer (being officers) are separated from the remaining three operatives: Thomas, Berkeley, and Christiansen. Smith and Schaffer kill their captors, blow up a supply depot, and prepare an escape route for later use. They ride on the roof of a cable car up to the castle, and then climb inside when Mary lowers a rope.
German General Rosemeyer and Standartenführer Kramer are interrogating Carnaby when the three new prisoners arrive, who reveal themselves as German double agents. Smith and Schaffer intrude, weapons drawn, but Smith forces Schaffer to disarm, identifying himself as Sturmbannführer Johann Schmidt of the Schutzstaffel's SD intelligence branch. He conveys proof of his identity, which includes showing the name of Germany's top spy in Britain to Kramer, who silently affirms it. He then reveals that "General Carnaby" is actually Corporal Cartwright Jones, an impersonator who volunteered to be captured. Claiming that the double agents are British impostors, Smith proposes that they prove themselves by writing down the names of their fellow agents in Britain, to be compared to his own list in his pocket. After the three finish their lists, Smith takes them and reveals that he was bluffing, and that the lists were the British mission's true objective all along.
Meanwhile, Mary is visited by Sturmbannführer von Hapen, a Gestapo officer who is attracted to her, but he becomes suspicious of flaws in her cover story. Leaving her, he happens upon the scene of Carnaby's interrogation just as Smith finishes his explanation. Von Hapen puts everyone under arrest but is distracted when Mary arrives. Schaffer kill