While You Were Sleeping is a 1995 American romantic comedy film directed by Jon Turteltaub and written by Daniel G. Sullivan and Fredric Lebow. It stars Sandra Bullock as Lucy, a Chicago Transit Authority token collector, and Bill Pullman as Jack, the brother of a man whose life she saves, along with Peter Gallagher as Peter, the man who is saved, Peter Boyle and Glynis Johns as members of Peter's family, and Jack Warden as a longtime family friend and neighbor.
The film was a critical and commercial success, grossing over $182 million at the box office. Bullock and Pullman received praise for their performances. Bullock also garnered a nomination for the Golden Globe Award for Best Actress – Motion Picture Comedy or Musical.


== Plot ==
Lucy Eleanor Moderatz is a lonely fare token collector for the Chicago Transit Authority, stationed at the Randolph/Wabash station. She secretly loves Peter Callaghan, a handsome commuter, though they are strangers. On Christmas Day, she rescues Peter from the oncoming Chicago "L" train after muggers push him onto the tracks. She accompanies the comatose Peter to the hospital, where a nurse overhears her musing aloud, "I was going to marry him." Misinterpreting, the nurse tells his family that she is his fiancée.
The family admits they haven't heard from Peter in a long time so being engaged is a surprise. Lucy becomes too caught up in the crisis to explain the truth. She remains silent for several reasons: She is embarrassed; Peter's grandmother, Elsie, has a heart condition; and Lucy falls in love with Peter's big, loving family. While visiting Peter, she confesses her predicament to him, unaware Peter's godfather Saul overhears the truth and later confronts her. Saul finds that Lucy is alone, her mother died when she was very young and her dad just  passed the year prior. He says he will keep her secret because the accident has brought the family closer and he knows that Lucy isn't being malicious.
With no family and few friends, Lucy becomes so captivated with the quirky Callaghans and their unconditional love for her that she is unable to hurt them by revealing that Peter does not know her. She spends a belated Christmas with them, then meets Peter's 
younger brother Jack, who is supposed to take over his father's furniture business, though he wants his own business. Jack is initially suspicious, but he falls in love with Lucy as they spend time together. She soon falls in love with him. They bond over their similar humor, their dreams of traveling, and their intense love for the Callaghans. Although their relationship comes to a momentary standstill when Jack, due to a misunderstanding, announces her "pregnancy" during her friend's New Year's Eve party, prompting them to have an argument eventually revealing their mutual dissatisfaction with life. Meanwhile, Peter's actual girlfriend, who we only know as Ashley, has agreed to marry him on his answering machine and leaves follow-up messages about his non-responsiveness, saying she has come back to town and wants to see him.
After New Year's Eve, Peter wakes up. He does not know Lucy, so it is assumed he has amnesia. Lucy attempts to tell the family the truth, but they assume she is telling them she's not really pregnant and they brush it off. Saul intercepts Lucy, saying he will handle telling the news to the Callahans. Jack takes her back home and Lucy tells him she appreciates how kind he's been and says he's been a great friend. Jack is finally able to tell his father he doesn't want to take over the business and wants to make furniture. His father not only understands but says he should've told him sooner. 
Saul visits Peter and tells him what a putz he is for how he treats women and he'd be lucky to marry Lucy, that she is special. Lucy and Peter begin spending time together and he realizes what a sweet girl she is. Meanwhile, Ashley Bartlett Bacon has come back to the city and finds from Peter's doorman that he's now engaged and he