Whipped cream is heavy, double, or other high-fat dairy cream that is whipped by a whisk or mixer until it is light and fluffy and holds its shape. Cream aerated by the expansion of dissolved gas, forming a firm colloid, is also called whipped cream. It is often sweetened, typically with white sugar, and sometimes flavored with vanilla. Whipped cream is also called Chantilly cream or crème Chantilly (French: [kʁɛm ʃɑ̃tiji]).


== Fat content ==
Cream with high butterfat content—typically 30%–36%—is used for whipping, as fat globules contribute to forming stable air bubbles.
During whipping, partially coalesced fat molecules create a stabilized network that traps air bubbles. The resulting colloid has about twice the volume of the original cream. If whipping is prolonged further, the fat droplets stick together, destroying the colloid and forming butter.  Low-fat cream, or milk, does not have enough fat to whip effectively.


== Production ==
Cream is usually whipped with a whisk, an electric hand mixer, or a food processor. Results are best when the equipment and ingredients are chilled. The bubbles in the whipped cream immediately start to pop, and it begins to liquefy, giving it a useful lifetime of one to two hours. Many 19th-century recipes recommend adding gum tragacanth to stabilize whipped cream, while a few include whipped egg whites.  Various other substances, including gelatin and diphosphate, are used in commercial stabilizers.


=== Instant ===
Cream aerated by an aerosol can or by a whipping siphon with a whipped-cream charger is sometimes described as whipped cream; it is similar to cream that has been aerated by whipping. A gas dissolves in the butterfat under pressure; when the pressure is released, the gas comes out of solution, forming small bubbles "aerating" the mass. Nitrous oxide gas is usually used; while carbon dioxide produces the same physical effect, it gives a sour taste. Cream supplied in an aerosol can is also known as skooshy cream (Scottish), squirty cream, spray cream, or aerosol cream. There are many brands of aerosol cream, with varying sweeteners and other factors. 
In some jurisdictions, sales of canned whipped cream are limited to avoid potentially dangerous nitrous oxide abuse.


== Flavorings ==
Whipped cream can be flavored with sugar, vanilla, coffee, chocolate, orange, or other flavorings.


== History ==

Whipped cream, often sweetened and aromatised, was popular in the 16th century, with recipes in the writings of Rabelais (Paris, 1531), unknown author in A Proper Newe Booke of Cokerye (London, 1545), Cristoforo di Messisbugo (Ferrara, 1549), Bartolomeo Scappi (Rome, 1570), and Lancelot de Casteau (Liège, 1604). It was called milk or cream snow (neve di latte, neige de lait, neige de crème).  The 1545 English recipe, "A Dyschefull of Snow", includes whipped egg whites as well, and is flavored with rosewater and sugar (cf. snow cream). In these recipes, and until the end of the 19th century, naturally separated cream is whipped, typically with willow or rush branches, and the resulting foam ("snow") on the surface would from time to time be skimmed off and drained. By the end of the 19th century, centrifuge separation was used to rapidly produce high-fat cream suitable for whipping.
The French name crème fouettée for whipped cream is attested in 1629, and the English name "whipped cream" in 1673. The name "snow cream" continued to be used in the 17th century.
Various desserts consisting of whipped cream in pyramidal shapes with coffee, liqueurs, chocolate, fruits, and so on either in the mixture or poured on top were called crème en mousse (cream in a foam), crème fouettée, crème mousseuse (foamy cream), mousse (foam), and fromage à la Chantilly (Chantilly-style molded cream), as early as 1768.  Modern mousses, including mousse au chocolat, are a continuation of this tradition.
Cream whipped in a whipping siphon with nitrous oxide was invented in the 1930s by both Charles Getz, worki