Who's Harry Crumb? is a 1989 American comedy-mystery film featuring John Candy as the title character. Paul Flaherty directed the film, which co-stars Annie Potts, Jeffrey Jones and Shawnee Smith. An uncredited cameo appearance is made by Jim Belushi. The story concerns the often incompetent, sometimes brilliant, private investigator Harry Crumb, who searches for a kidnapping victim.


== Plot ==
In Beverly Hills, fashion model Jennifer Downing is kidnapped. Her father, multimillionaire P.J. Downing, turns to family friend Eliot Draisen—president of the Crumb & Crumb private detective agency—to investigate the case, unaware he is the kidnapper. Eliot offers them the aid of Harry Crumb, the last descendant of the agency's distinguished founders. A bumbling, clumsy, but dedicated detective with a penchant for disguises, Harry is recalled from the Tulsa, Oklahoma branch where he was assigned ten years earlier to keep him away from the head office. Eliot believes Harry will be completely ineffective in solving the case.
Harry meets with the Downing family, including Jennifer's overlooked younger sister Nikki and P.J.'s greedy new wife Helen, who is having an affair with her tennis coach Vince Barnes. Harry infiltrates the salon where Jennifer was kidnapped and learns she was using Helen's standing appointment. P.J. receives a $10 million ransom demand to spare Jennifer's life. Meanwhile, Eliot meets with Helen, confessing he has been in love with her since they went to school together. Helen rebuffs him, admitting she only cares about money and would only be with Eliot if he possessed vast wealth.
Convinced that Helen and Vince are the kidnappers, Harry begins working with Nikki to investigate them. Concerned that P.J. will pay the ransom, Helen and Vince decide to implement their own long-planned effort to kill P.J. so she will inherit his money first. They sabotage the brakes on P.J.'s car but Harry and Nikki borrow it to covertly follow Helen and Vince. When the brakes fail, Harry unintentionally rams their car and they assume that he is chasing them. The pair escape after Harry crashes his car. Harry assumes they sabotaged the car to kill him and stop his investigation.
Harry infiltrates the vent system in Vince's apartment complex to spy on him and Helen, unaware that Vince has been lured away by Eliot who uses his knowledge of her affair to blackmail her for sex. Unable to see through the high vent in the apartment, Harry overhears film characters on the TV discussing traveling to Buenos Aires which he believes is Vince and Helen planning to flee the country; the location also inspires Eliot's own escape plans. Eliot sends a new ransom demanding the money by Friday, which Helen intercepts and changes to the following Monday, giving herself more time to kill P.J.. Eliot has his accomplice Dwayne force Jennifer to call and re-confirm the ransom for Friday, to be exchanged at the horse racing track. Eliot takes the briefcase containing the cash from Harry, ostensibly under instructions from the kidnapper, and leaves for the airport. Helen and Vince unsuccessfully try to follow him to steal the money. 
At the airport, Eliot calls Helen, admits his role in the kidnapping, and asks her to come with him to Buenos Aires now that he is rich, to which she readily agrees. Vince overhears the call and intercepts the pair, taking the money and causing Helen to rejoin him. They bind and gag Eliot, leaving him in a utility room, before boarding the plane. Harry and Nikki arrive, commandeering a stair truck to pursue the plane. Their chaotic chase causes a luggage trolley to crash into the building in which Dwayne is holding Jennifer, inadvertently electrocuting Dwayne to death. Nikki rams the stair car into the plane, allowing Harry to capture Helen and Vince, who are taken into police custody. With Jennifer saved, Harry and Nikki celebrate until he overhears Eliot trying to free himself. Assuming Harry has deduced his part in the kidnappi