Yuri Mamin (Russian: Юрий Борисович Мамин) is a Soviet and Russian film director, stage director, screenwriter, composer, author and television host. He created a number of movies popular in Russia including Neptune's Feast (1986), Fontain (1988), Sideburns, (1990), Window to Paris (1993), and Don't Think About White Monkeys (2008). He is a Merited Artist of the Russian Federation.
Yuri Mamin is the only person in Russia to have won the Chaplin's Golden Cane award.  The award was presented by Charlie Chaplin's widow, Oona Chaplin, at the festival marking 100 years since the birth of the great comedian.  The festival was held in the Swiss city of Vevey, where Chaplin was buried.
Mamin's works are known for a strong emphasis on social justice and criticism of hypocritical social norms. Because of this, he found difficult to find support for his productions in the totalitarian USSR, as well as in today's Russia, where film makers became dependent on corporate oligarchy. His characters often portray an inspired citizen in the fight for social justice against corporate capitalism.
Mamin's films received numerous grand prizes and other awards.


== Personal life ==


=== Childhood and youth ===
Yuri Mamin's grandfather, Dmitry Dmitrievich Mamin, was the People's Commissar of the Petrograd river routes and a descendant of Northern Tatars. He was repressed and shot during Stalin's Great Purge in 1937. According to Yuri Mamin's maternal grandmother, his grandfather considered the writer Dmitry Mamin-Sibiryak a relative. Galina Dmitrievna Mamina, the film director's mother, was an art historian and theater worker who taught theater history at the Leningrad Higher Trade-Union School of Culture. Several of her students became directors of concert halls and heads of Departments of Culture.
Yuri Mamin inherited his Tatar surname from his mother. His stepfather, Nikolai Nikolaevich Chizhov, was a famous player for the Football Club Zenit in the beginning of the 1950s. Many years later, Mamin would name the main character of his film "Window to Paris" after his father.


=== Student life ===
Immediately after graduating from high school, Yuri applied for the theater directing course at the Leningrad Institute of Theater, Music and Cinematography.
At that time, young people aged 25 years and older were accepted into the directing program, but not of younger age. It was considered, and rightly so, that directors could only be people with life experience, practice working with people, and a cultural knowledge base. But professor Leonid Fyodorovich Makaryev, a People's Artist of the USSR, liked the 18-year-old boy who, at a colloquium, boldly answered questions about theater, film and literature, Peter Brook and existentialism - a result of his mother's teaching.
An exception was made, and Mamin was accepted into an experimental acting-directing course, where budding directors studied alongside budding actors.  They worked on all acting skills, including voice, dance, fencing, etc. Additionally, from the first year on they studied how to put on sketches, fragments and entire plays with their classmates. During his collaborative study at the institute, Mamin gained confidence in both acting and directing skills, participating in student revues and in plays on the stage of the old Young Spectator's Theatre (TUZ).
For his graduation play, Yuri Mamin was sent to the regional city of Velikiye Luki, where he was commissioned by the leaders of the local drama theater to direct Denis Fonvizin’s comedy "The Minor" for a high school program. Having decided to follow in the footsteps of his idol, Vsevolod Meyerhold, Mamin directed "The Minor" in such an uninhibited manner and with so much eccentricity, that the teachers forbade their students from seeing the play, which caused a frenzy in the city. The play was a resounding success and Mamin's name became famous well beyond the confines of the theater and the city. The Regional Committee discussed a possibl