Woman on top is any sex position in which the woman is on top of her sexual partner during sexual activity. The position most commonly associated with the woman on top is often called the cowgirl or riding position, which derives its name from the image of the woman "riding" the man as a cowgirl rides a bucking horse. In that position, a man typically lies on his back with his legs closed, while the female partner straddles him, usually in a kneeling position facing either forward or back, and either the man or woman inserts the man's erect penis into the woman's vagina or anus. The cowgirl position is commonly cited as one of the more popular sex positions, especially by women, because it gives them control over the rhythm and pace of vaginal stimulation and the extent and duration of penetration and because of its ability to adequately stimulate the clitoris. There are other positions in which the woman may be on top, including the 69 position and the pompoir sex position.
In any of the woman on top positions, the woman is usually the active partner during sexual activity, and in addition to satisfying herself can stimulate or massage the man's scrotum, especially if his legs are spread. The woman may take the position in the course of sexual activity, especially if the man has attained orgasm while she has not; and in this position she or her partner may perform fingering for her to achieve orgasm.


== Variations ==
Initially, the man typically lies on his back with his legs together, while the female partner straddles him in a kneeling position. With the woman's legs open, either the man or woman would insert the man's erect penis into the woman's vagina. Once the woman has attained sufficient vaginal lubrication, she feels comfortable in thrusting up and down the penis and is in a position to vary her position for variety and enhanced pleasure. She can, for example, tilt her body forward toward a full lying position or backwards, or rock sideways. The woman has control over the rhythm and speed of her thrusting. She can also spread the man's legs and position herself between them. In this position,  she can tighten her legs at will, to increase the pressure on the man's penis and on her crotch, and the man can also tighten his legs to increase the pressure. In this position, the man's legs are free to raise, as high as the Amazon position, with his legs rolled up towards her chest, but this also should be done with care. These changes can alter the depth and angle of penetration.
The woman can sit backwards on the man and alter her position similarly.
The woman may also be on top in a precursor to the lateral coital position. In this position, the woman will usually prefer to kneel, as a squat will usually place a significantly greater stress on her legs.


=== Cowgirl position ===
In the cowgirl position, the man lies on his back or sits, with the woman straddling him across his pelvis facing forward, either in a kneeling or squatting position. The woman will align her vagina with the man's erect penis, and lower herself onto the penis with either the man or the woman guiding the penis into the woman's vagina for penetration. With the erect penis inside the woman, the woman can glide up and down the man's penis, controlling the rhythm and pace of vaginal stimulation and the extent and duration of penetration. The woman is free to change her position; possibilities range from leaning back to stretching out on her partner's chest to rocking from side to side or in a circular motion. Each of those changes would alter the angle and depth of penetration and which part of the vaginal area and sex organs are stimulated. The man's hands are free to reach and touch the woman's breasts, clitoris, buttocks, face etc., and the partners can maintain eye contact. With the woman in the sitting or leaning back positions, the man may also stimulate her nipples and clitoris with his fingers, or suck on her nipples if she inclines towards