The Wrong Trousers is a 1993 British stop-motion animated short film co-written and directed by Nick Park, featuring his characters Wallace and Gromit, and was produced by Aardman Animations in association with Wallace and Gromit Ltd., BBC Bristol, Lionheart Television and BBC Children's International. It is the second film featuring the eccentric inventor Wallace (voiced by Peter Sallis) and his dog Gromit, following A Grand Day Out (1989). In the film, a villainous penguin, Feathers McGraw, posing as a lodger, recruits Wallace by using his techno-trousers to steal a diamond from the city museum.
The Wrong Trousers debuted in the United States on 17 December 1993, and the United Kingdom on 26 December 1993 on BBC Two. It was commercially successful, and won the Academy Award for Best Animated Short Film in 1994. It also inspired a charity fundraising day, known as "Wrong Trousers Day", one of several events.
The Wrong Trousers was followed by A Close Shave (1995), The Curse of the Were-Rabbit (2005), and A Matter of Loaf and Death (2008). Feathers McGraw returns in the 2003 video game Wallace & Gromit in Project Zoo and made a background cameo in the 2023 film Chicken Run: Dawn of the Nugget.


== Plot ==
On Gromit's birthday, Wallace gives him new techno-trousers to take him on walks. When Wallace realizes that he does not have enough money to pay off debts, he rents out the spare bedroom to a penguin, who befriends Wallace and drives Gromit from the house. The penguin takes an interest in the trousers, which can also walk on walls and ceilings, and secretly rewires them for remote control. Gromit realises that the penguin is the wanted criminal Feathers McGraw, who disguises himself as a chicken.
Feathers forces Wallace into the techno-trousers and sends him on a test run through town, designed to tire him out and send him back to bed upon returning home. Gromit spies on Feathers as he takes measurements of the city museum, and discovers Feathers' plans to steal a diamond from there. While Wallace sleeps, Feathers marches him to the museum and uses the trousers to infiltrate the building. He uses a remotely operated crane claw contained in a helmet he has made Wallace wear, to capture the diamond, but as soon as he gets the diamond, he accidentally triggers the alarm. As Wallace wakes up, Feathers marches him back to the house and traps him and Gromit in a wardrobe.
Gromit rewires the trousers to break open the wardrobe. He and Wallace pursue Feathers aboard their model train set. Wallace disarms Feathers and accidentally escapes from the trousers. After Feathers' train collides with the trousers, Gromit captures him in an empty milk bottle. They take Feathers to the police station, and he is subsequently imprisoned in the city zoo. Wallace and Gromit pay their debts with the reward money, while the techno-trousers walks off into the sunset.


== Reception ==

The Wrong Trousers was voted as the eighteenth-best British television show by the British Film Institute. The film has an approval rating of 100% on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 26 reviews, and an average score of 9.1/10. The critical consensus reads, "An endearing and meticulous showcase of stop motion animation, The Wrong Trousers also happens to be laugh-out-loud funny."
The film was awarded the Grand Prix at the Tampere Film Festival, and the Grand Prix at the World Festival of Animated film – Animafest Zagreb in 1994. The Wrong Trousers won the Academy Award for Best Animated Short Film in 1994.


== See also ==
List of films featuring powered exoskeletons
List of films with a 100% rating on Rotten Tomatoes


== References ==


== External links ==

The Wrong Trousers at IMDb 
The Wrong Trousers at Rotten Tomatoes