The Wrong Mans is a British comedy drama television series, produced by BBC Television and Hulu. It premiered on BBC Two on 24 September 2013 and in the United States on 11 November 2013. Considered a critical and ratings success, it was co-created and written by Gavin & Stacey alumni James Corden and Mathew Baynton as an attempt to combine the situation comedy format with the intricate plotting and storytelling tropes of an action-adventure series.
A two-part sequel series aired on BBC Two in the runup to Christmas 2014, with Hulu broadcasting the same series in four parts on Christmas Eve.
In 2018, it was announced that an American remake of the show was being produced for Showtime by J. J. Abrams's Bad Robot and BBC Studios. However, the pilot was later cancelled by Showtime.


== Premise ==
Berkshire County Council worker Sam Pinkett and Phil Bourne, who doesn't work for the council but works inside the building, become entangled in a far-fetched web of crime, conspiracy and corruption after Sam answers a ringing mobile phone at the site of a car crash.


== Cast ==
Mathew Baynton as Samuel James Pinkett
James Corden as Philip Neville Bourne
Sarah Solemani as Lizzie Green
Tom Basden as Noel Ward
Paul Cawley as Alan
Chandeep Uppal as Sabrina
Dawn French as Linda Bourne
Nick Moran as Nick Stevens
Emilia Fox as Scarlett Stevens
David Calder as Mr. Reid
Benedict Wong as Mr Lau
Andrew Koji as Jason Lau
Christina Chong as May Wu
Dougray Scott as Agent Jack Walker
Stephen Campbell Moore as Paul Smoke
Karel Roden as Marat Malankovic
Duncan Pow as Petr
Alec Utgoff as Yuri & Dimitri
Rebecca Front as Cox
Rowena King as Wood
Ray Panthaki as Khalil (Series 2)
Anastasia Griffith as Agent Miller (Series 2)
Bertie Carvel as Nathan Cross (Series 2)
Raoul Trujillo as Carlos Espinoza (Series 2)
John Ross Bowie as Dave Kinsman (Series 2)
Samantha Spiro as Maria (Series 2)
Rosa Whitcher as Rosa (Series 2)
Trevor Cooper as Guard Harry (Series 2)


== Production ==
On 9 October 2012, BBC Two controller Janice Hadlow announced The Wrong Mans as a co-production between BBC In-House Comedy and Hulu. The series was commissioned by Janice Hadlow and Cheryl Taylor. A pilot based on Baynton and Corden's initial series pitch had previously been shot in 2010; some elements were retained for what eventually became the first episode of the full series, including a cameo from David Harewood. Principal filming on the series began in January 2013, at the same time as the cast was announced. Jeremy Dyson was the script editor for the series.
The idea for the series initially arose out of a conversation between Corden and Baynton on the set of Gavin & Stacey, four years earlier, regarding the apparent scarcity of TV sitcoms with the same level of intricate, meaningful plotting as then-current dramatic hits 24 and Lost. As a starting-point for their own half-hour comedy show pitch to the BBC, the duo were further inspired by the Coen Brothers' film Burn After Reading, with its central concept of ordinary characters obviously out of their depth in a standard action-movie scenario. The humour in their new TV series, Baynton and Corden decided, would arise not so much from deliberate jokes as from the sheer realistic ineptitude of the heroes' attempts to cope with a high-stakes melodrama constantly snowballing further out of their control.
Once they began actually writing the series, the two quickly realised this would mean carrying through a much more ambitious project than they had anticipated, eventually leading to a significant amount of effort spent attempting to work out a believably complex, well-paced thriller plot. Producer/director Jim Field Smith described the result as a "movie broken into six parts", and in filming aimed for a likewise ambitious fusion of the realistic and cinematic, insisting that the thriller elements be played entirely straight.
Regarding the apparently awkward title, Corden explained that the extra and ungrammatical "s" was deliber