"73 Yards" is the fourth episode of the fourteenth series of the science fiction television series Doctor Who. The episode was first broadcast on BBC One in the United Kingdom on 25 May 2024, and was released by Disney+ in the United States on 24 May. It was written by Russell T Davies and directed by Dylan Holmes Williams. 
In the episode, the Fifteenth Doctor (Ncuti Gatwa) suddenly disappears off a cliffside in Wales after breaking a fairy circle. His companion, Ruby Sunday (Millie Gibson), searches for him while being followed by a mysterious woman who is always 73 yards away from her. Described by Davies as folk horror, "73 Yards" was the first episode of the fourteenth series to be filmed, with shooting taking place in various locations around Wales in late 2022 and early 2023.
"73 Yards" received positive reviews from critics, with Gibson's performance being widely praised.


== Plot ==
The Doctor and Ruby arrive at a cliffside in Wales. The Doctor accidentally steps on a "fairy circle" and Ruby reads aloud a message written on a scroll placed within it, saying, "Rest in Peace, Mad Jack". Shortly thereafter, the Doctor vanishes. Ruby sees a mysterious woman has appeared exactly 73 yards away from her, no matter where she is standing. Ruby realises the woman moves when she moves towards her, and every person she requests talk to her instead flees in terror.
Ruby returns home, where she requests her mother, Carla's aid. Carla talks to the woman, but also flees in terror. Carla disowns Ruby and leaves her homeless, where Ruby eventually meets up with Kate Lethbridge-Stewart of UNIT. She states the Doctor was never seen again after disappearing in Wales, and comments on the increase in magical activity tracked by UNIT of late. She speculates the TARDIS' perception filter on the fairy circle may have created the phenomenon. Several UNIT soldiers attempt to capture the woman, but upon getting close to her, she speaks to them and they leave, including Kate. With no more help, Ruby spends the next twenty years alone.
While on a date, Ruby sees an advertisement for Roger ap Gwilliam, a political candidate mentioned by the Doctor as bringing Britain to the brink of nuclear war after he is elected. She also sees his nickname, "Mad Jack", and connects this to the fairy circle. Ruby thus joins Gwilliam's party to stop him. Gwilliam wins the election, and plans to make a speech to the world where he will announce Britain is leaving NATO and buying Pakistan's nuclear arsenal. Ruby then stands 73 yards from Gwilliam, leading to him encountering the woman. Gwilliam subsequently flees in terror and resigns as prime minister.
The woman does not leave, and Ruby spends another forty years alone. An elderly Ruby lies in a hospital bed, watching the woman slowly approach her bed's foot as Ruby's heart monitor stops. Elder Ruby appears in the past, on the day she and the Doctor interacted with the circle. She views them from the woman's position, whom the younger Ruby now notices earlier, and warns her before she vanishes. Ruby duly prevents the Doctor from stepping across the fairy circle before the pair leave.


== Production ==


=== Development ===
"73 Yards" was written by Russell T Davies, who described the episode as being "Welsh folk horror" and the antagonist to be the "strangest villain you'll ever see." He further explained that the episode showed Ruby living "a life of penitence", required to do "something good" to earn forgiveness for the Doctor's unintentional "lack of respect" in breaking the fairy circle. Gatwa stated that "73 Yards" was important to Ruby's overall development throughout the series.
The episode omitted Doctor Who's opening theme song and title sequence. It is one of the few episodes in the programme's history to do so, the others being "Sleep No More" (2015), "The Woman Who Fell to Earth" (2018) and "Resolution" (2019).


=== Filming ===

"73 Yards" was filmed in December 2022 and January 2023 and directed by Dy