The Yards is a 2000 American crime film directed by James Gray, written by Gray and Matt Reeves, and starring Mark Wahlberg, Joaquin Phoenix, Charlize Theron, Faye Dunaway, Ellen Burstyn and James Caan.
Set in the commuter rail yards in New York City ("the yards"), specifically in the boroughs of the Bronx, Queens, and Brooklyn, where contractors repair railway cars for the city Transit Authority (TA), bribery, corporate crime and political corruption are commonplace, as rival companies sabotage each other's work to win bids, and the undercutting leads to murder.


== Plot ==
Leo Handler visits his mother Val's house in Queens, New York, where she throws a surprise party celebrating his parole. There he meets up with Willie Gutierrez, his cousin Erica Soltz's boyfriend, who thanks him for serving time in prison, implying that Leo had taken a fall for their gang of friends. Eager to support Val, who has a heart condition, Leo follows Willie's suggestion of working for Erica's stepfather, Frank Olchin. The next day, at the offices of his railway car repair company, the Electric Rail Corporation, in Maspeth, Frank offers to help finance Leo's studies during a 2-year machinist program. Needing work immediately, Leo asks if Willie could be allowed to join the company, but Frank declines. Willie commiserates with Leo that night at a nightclub, saying Frank also unsuccessfully tried to get him into a machinist program.
At Brooklyn Borough Hall, Willie explains the inherent corruption in the contract system for repair work on the subways. After a hearing to award contracts, Hector Gallardo, co-owner of the Puerto Rican-owned Weltech Corporation, a minority company, approaches Willie about leaving Frank's firm for his. Willie declines and instead brings Leo with him to Roosevelt Island, where he bribes an official charged with awarding contracts. One night, Willie brings Leo to the Sunnyside repair yards, where he and his crew sabotage Weltech's work, hoping to lower their quality rating and lessen their ability to get contracts. Leo is instructed to stand watch while the crew sabotages the train couplings. Willie enters yard master Elliot Gorwitz's office to pay him off with Knicks tickets, but is ordered to remove his crew from the tracks, as Gallardo has already brought him $2,000 in cash. Gorwitz activates the alarm, which draws police officer Jerry Rifkin to the scene. Terrified of potentially returning to prison, Leo attempts escape, but when Rifkin starts assaulting him with his night stick, Leo beats him into unconsciousness. As he escapes, he witnesses Willie fatally stabbing Gorwitz.
With Rifkin in a coma at a hospital, the crew orders Leo to murder him to prevent him from identifying Leo when he awakens and escape certain death. Upon awakening, Rifkin identifies Leo as his attacker, triggering a broad manhunt. The police, assuming Leo also killed Gorwitz, raid Val's apartment, causing her to suffer from a near-fatal heart attack. Despite being instructed by Willie to keep a low profile, Leo emerges from hiding to visit a sick Val. While he is tending to her, Erica discovers Willie was with Leo at the yards and realizes he was the one who murdered Gorwitz, consequently ending her romantic relationship with him. Frank disowns Willie, who tries unsuccessfully to accept a deal offered to him earlier by Gallardo for protection.
Erica implores Frank to help, but instead Leo realizes that Frank is prepared to kill him. With no other options available, Leo desperately turns to Gallardo for protection. Accompanied by Gallardo's lawyers, Leo turns himself in at a public hearing into the rail yard incident and contract corruption. Realizing that Rifkin's testimony against Leo is in no one's interest, Frank and Gallardo negotiate a new split of the contracts with Queens Borough President Arthur Mydanick in a backroom deal. Willie visits Erica, wanting to reconcile with her, and disturbingly reveals to her that according to Frank, she an