Young Frankenstein (promoted as The New Mel Brooks Musical: Young Frankenstein) is a musical with a book by Mel Brooks and Thomas Meehan, and music and lyrics by Brooks. It is based on the 1974 comedy film of the same name written by Gene Wilder and Brooks who also directed and has described it as his best film. It is a parody of the horror film genre, especially the 1931 Universal Pictures adaptation of Mary Shelley's Frankenstein and its 1935 and 1939 sequels, Bride of Frankenstein and Son of Frankenstein.
After tryouts in Seattle and four weeks of previews, the musical opened on Broadway on November 8, 2007 to mixed reviews. The Broadway production closed on January 4, 2009, after 30 previews and 484 performances. A U.S. tour started on September 29, 2009, in Providence, Rhode Island.
A revised version of the show opened in London's West End at the Garrick Theatre on October 10, 2017 (after a tryout at the Theatre Royal, Newcastle) to positive reviews.


== Background ==
After the success of his 2001 musical, The Producers, based on Brooks's earlier film of the same name, Brooks decided to create a musical based on another of his successful films. Brooks and Meehan (the same team that crafted The Producers) began work on the project in April 2006. An October 2006 reading of the first draft of the script directed by Susan Stroman (who had directed the earlier musical) featured Brian d'Arcy James as Dr. Frankenstein, Kristin Chenoweth as Elizabeth, Sutton Foster as Inga, Roger Bart as Igor, Marc Kudisch as Inspector Kemp, and Shuler Hensley as the Monster.
Cloris Leachman, reprising her film role as Frau Blucher, also attended the table read, and at the time it was widely reported she would be offered the role of Blucher for the stage show. However, gossip maven Liz Smith reported in her January 12, 2007 New York Post column that Leachman was sent a letter informing her she would not be considered for the Broadway production because the producers wanted to keep the film and stage properties separate (and also because of Brooks's concerns over Leachman's ability to perform the character consistently at her age). Despite this, due to Leachman's success on Dancing with the Stars, Brooks reportedly asked her to reprise her role as Frau Blucher after Beth Leavel left the production. However, the production closed before Leachman could take over the role.


== Productions ==


=== Seattle tryout and Broadway (2007–2009) ===
The pre-Broadway try-out played at the Paramount Theatre in Seattle, Washington from August 7 through September 1, 2007.
Young Frankenstein began previews on Broadway on October 11, 2007, and opened on November 8 at the Lyric Theatre (then the Hilton Theatre) and closed on January 4, 2009, after 485 performances. Directed and choreographed by Susan Stroman, it starred Roger Bart as Frankenstein, Megan Mullally as Elizabeth, Christopher Fitzgerald as Igor, Sutton Foster as Inga, Andrea Martin as Frau Blucher, Shuler Hensley as The Monster, and Fred Applegate as Inspector Kemp. Sets were designed by Robin Wagner and costumes by William Ivey Long; orchestrations were by Doug Besterman. The production had a reported $16 million-plus budget and a top ticket price of $450 in its "differential seating". It also sold front row tickets for $25 each based on a lottery a few hours before each performance. The producers indicated that they planned to buck the usual Broadway practice by not reporting Box Office returns.
The musical's original cast album was released on December 26, 2007, by Decca Broadway and was third on the Billboard Top Cast Album chart in the beginning of January 2008.
Replacements for the Broadway company included Kelly Sullivan as Inga, Beth Leavel as Frau Blucher, Michele Ragusa as Elizabeth, and Cory English as Igor.


=== US tours ===
First National Tour
A touring production of the show began in September 2009 at the Providence Performing Arts Center, Providence, Rhode Island. The cast for the tour 